<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="application/xhtml+xml; charset=utf-8" />
<title>Genesis 50</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/bi12.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
<p class="w_biblebookname">Genesis</p><p class="sb"><a id="chapter50"></a><a id="chapter50_verse1"></a><span class="w_ch"><b>50 </b></span>Then Joseph fell upon the face of his father and burst into tears over him and kissed him. <a id="chapter50_verse2"></a><b><sup>2 </sup></b>After that Joseph commanded his servants, the physicians, to embalm his father. So the physicians embalmed Israel, <a id="chapter50_verse3"></a><b><sup>3 </sup></b>and they took fully forty days for him, for this many days they customarily take for the embalming, and the Egyptians continued to shed tears for him seventy days.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter50_verse4"></a><b><sup>4 </sup></b>Finally the days of weeping for him passed, and Joseph spoke to Phar′aoh’s household, saying: “If, now, I have found favor in <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>eyes, speak, please, in the hearing of Phar′aoh, saying, <a id="chapter50_verse5"></a><b><sup>5 </sup></b>‘My father made me swear, saying: “Look! I am dying. In my burial place which I have excavated for myself in the land of Ca′naan is where you are to bury me.” And now, please, let me go up and bury my father, after which I am willing to return.’” <a id="chapter50_verse6"></a><b><sup>6 </sup></b>Accordingly Phar′aoh <a id="page76"></a>said: “Go up and bury your father just as he made you swear.”</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter50_verse7"></a><b><sup>7 </sup></b>So Joseph went up to bury his father, and there went up with him all of Phar′aoh’s servants, the older men of his household and all the older men of the land of Egypt, <a id="chapter50_verse8"></a><b><sup>8 </sup></b>and all of Joseph’s household and his brothers and the household of his father. Only their little children and their flocks and their herds they left in the land of Go′shen. <a id="chapter50_verse9"></a><b><sup>9 </sup></b>There also went up with him both chariots and horsemen, and the camp came to be very numerous. <a id="chapter50_verse10"></a><b><sup>10 </sup></b>Then they came to the threshing floor of A′tad, which is in the region of the Jordan, and there they carried on a very great and heavy wailing and he kept up the mourning rites for his father seven days. <a id="chapter50_verse11"></a><b><sup>11 </sup></b>And the inhabitants of the land, the Ca′naan·ites, got to see the mourning rites in the threshing floor of A′tad, and they exclaimed: “This is a heavy mourning for the Egyptians!” That is why its name was called A′bel-miz′ra·im, which is in the region of the Jordan.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter50_verse12"></a><b><sup>12 </sup></b>And his sons proceeded to do for him exactly as he had commanded them. <a id="chapter50_verse13"></a><b><sup>13 </sup></b>So his sons carried him into the land of Ca′naan and buried him in the cave of the field of Mach·pe′lah, the field that Abraham had purchased for the possession of a burial place from E′phron the Hit′tite in front of Mam′re. <a id="chapter50_verse14"></a><b><sup>14 </sup></b>Afterward Joseph returned to Egypt, he and his brothers and all those who went up with him to bury his father, after he had buried his father.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter50_verse15"></a><b><sup>15 </sup></b>When the brothers of Joseph saw that their father was dead, they began to say: “It may be that Joseph is harboring animosity against us and he will be sure to repay us for all the evil that we have rendered him.” <a id="chapter50_verse16"></a><b><sup>16 </sup></b>So they expressed a command to Joseph in these words: “Your father gave the command before his death, saying, <a id="chapter50_verse17"></a><b><sup>17 </sup></b>‘This is what <span class="smcap">YOU </span>are to say to Joseph: “I beseech you, pardon, please, the revolt of your brothers and their sin in that they have rendered evil to you.”’ And now pardon, please, the revolt of the servants of your father’s God.” And Joseph burst into tears when they spoke to him. <a id="chapter50_verse18"></a><b><sup>18 </sup></b>Following that his brothers also came and fell down before him and said: “Here we are as slaves to you!” <a id="chapter50_verse19"></a><b><sup>19 </sup></b>Then Joseph said to them: “Do not be afraid, for am I in the place of God? <a id="chapter50_verse20"></a><b><sup>20 </sup></b>As for <span class="smcap">YOU</span>, <span class="smcap">YOU </span>had evil in mind against me. God had it in mind for good for the purpose of acting as at this day to preserve many people alive. <a id="chapter50_verse21"></a><b><sup>21 </sup></b>So now do not be afraid. I myself shall keep supplying <span class="smcap">YOU </span>and <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>little children with food.” Thus he comforted them and spoke reassuringly to them.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter50_verse22"></a><b><sup>22 </sup></b>And Joseph continued to dwell in Egypt, he and the house of his father; and Joseph lived for a hundred and ten years. <a id="chapter50_verse23"></a><b><sup>23 </sup></b>And Joseph got to see E′phra·im’s sons of the third generation, also the sons of Ma′chir, Ma·nas′seh’s son. They were born upon Joseph’s knees. <a id="chapter50_verse24"></a><b><sup>24 </sup></b>At length Joseph said to his brothers: “I am dying; but God will without fail turn his attention to <span class="smcap">YOU</span>, and he will certainly bring <span class="smcap">YOU </span>up out of this land to the land about which he swore to Abraham, to Isaac and to Jacob.” <a id="chapter50_verse25"></a><b><sup>25 </sup></b>Hence Joseph made the sons of Israel swear, saying: “God will without fail turn his attention to <span class="smcap">YOU</span>. Accordingly <span class="smcap">YOU </span>must take my bones up out of here.” <a id="chapter50_verse26"></a><b><sup>26 </sup></b>After that Joseph died at the age of a hundred and ten years; and they had him embalmed, and he was put in a coffin in Egypt.</p>
</body>
</html>
