<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="application/xhtml+xml; charset=utf-8" />
<title>Genesis 14</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/bi12.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
<p class="w_biblebookname">Genesis</p><p class="sb"><a id="chapter14"></a><a id="chapter14_verse1"></a><span class="w_ch"><b>14 </b></span>Now it came about in the days of Am′ra·phel king of Shi′nar, Ar′i·och king of El·la′sar, Ched·or·la·o′mer king of E′lam, and Ti′dal king of Goi′im, <a id="chapter14_verse2"></a><b><sup>2 </sup></b>that these made war with Be′ra king of Sod′om, and with Bir′sha king of Go·mor′rah, Shi′nab king of Ad′mah, and Shem·e′ber king of Ze·boi′im, and the king of Be′la (that is to say, Zo′ar). <a id="chapter14_verse3"></a><b><sup>3 </sup></b>All these marched as allies to the Low Plain of Sid′dim, that is, the Salt Sea.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter14_verse4"></a><b><sup>4 </sup></b>Twelve years they had served Ched·or·la·o′mer, but the thirteenth year they rebelled. <a id="chapter14_verse5"></a><b><sup>5 </sup></b>And in the fourteenth year Ched·or·la·o′mer came, and also the kings who were with him, and they inflicted defeats on the Reph′a·im in Ash′te·roth-kar·na′im, and the Zu′zim in Ham, and the E′mim in Sha′veh-kir·i·a·tha′im, <a id="chapter14_verse6"></a><b><sup>6 </sup></b>and the Hor′ites in their mountain of Se′ir, down to El-pa′ran, which is at the wilderness. <a id="chapter14_verse7"></a><b><sup>7 </sup></b>Then they turned about and came to En-mish′pat, that is, Ka′desh, and defeated the whole field of <a id="page22"></a>the A·mal′ek·ites and also the Am′or·ites who were dwelling in Haz′a·zon-ta′mar.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter14_verse8"></a><b><sup>8 </sup></b>At this point the king of Sod′om went on the march, and also the king of Go·mor′rah and the king of Ad′mah and the king of Ze·boi′im and the king of Be′la (that is to say, Zo′ar), and they drew up in battle order against them in the Low Plain of Sid′dim, <a id="chapter14_verse9"></a><b><sup>9 </sup></b>against Ched·or·la·o′mer king of E′lam and Ti′dal king of Goi′im and Am′ra·phel king of Shi′nar and Ar′i·och king of El·la′sar; four kings against the five. <a id="chapter14_verse10"></a><b><sup>10 </sup></b>Now the Low Plain of Sid′dim was pits upon pits of bitumen; and the kings of Sod′om and Go·mor′rah took to flight and went falling into them, and those who remained fled to the mountainous region. <a id="chapter14_verse11"></a><b><sup>11 </sup></b>Then the victors took all the goods of Sod′om and Go·mor′rah and all their food and went on their way. <a id="chapter14_verse12"></a><b><sup>12 </sup></b>They also took Lot the son of A′bram’s brother and his goods and continued on their way. He was then dwelling in Sod′om.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter14_verse13"></a><b><sup>13 </sup></b>After that a man who had escaped came and told A′bram the Hebrew. He was then tabernacling among the big trees of Mam′re the Am′or·ite, the brother of Esh′col and brother of A′ner; and they were confederates of A′bram. <a id="chapter14_verse14"></a><b><sup>14 </sup></b>Thus A′bram got to hear that his brother had been taken captive. With that he mustered his trained men, three hundred and eighteen slaves born in his household, and went in pursuit up to Dan. <a id="chapter14_verse15"></a><b><sup>15 </sup></b>And by night he resorted to dividing his forces, he and his slaves, against them, and thus he defeated them and kept in pursuit of them up to Ho′bah, which is north of Damascus. <a id="chapter14_verse16"></a><b><sup>16 </sup></b>And he proceeded to recover all the goods, and he recovered also Lot his brother and his goods and also the women and the people.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter14_verse17"></a><b><sup>17 </sup></b>Then the king of Sod′om went out to meet him after he returned from defeating Ched·or·la·o′mer and the kings that were with him, to the Low Plain of Sha′veh, that is, the king’s Low Plain. <a id="chapter14_verse18"></a><b><sup>18 </sup></b>And Mel·chiz′e·dek king of Sa′lem brought out bread and wine, and he was priest of the Most High God. <a id="chapter14_verse19"></a><b><sup>19 </sup></b>Then he blessed him and said:</p>
<p class="sp">“Blessed be A′bram of the Most High God,</p>
<p class="sz">Producer of heaven and earth;</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter14_verse20"></a><b><sup>20 </sup></b>And blessed be the Most High God,</p>
<p class="sz">Who has delivered your oppressors into your hand!”</p>
<p class="sb">At that A′bram gave him a tenth of everything.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter14_verse21"></a><b><sup>21 </sup></b>After that the king of Sod′om said to A′bram: “Give me the souls, but take the goods for yourself.” <a id="chapter14_verse22"></a><b><sup>22 </sup></b>At this A′bram said to the king of Sod′om: “I do lift up my hand in an oath to Jehovah the Most High God, Producer of heaven and earth, <a id="chapter14_verse23"></a><b><sup>23 </sup></b>that, from a thread to a sandal lace, no, I shall take nothing from anything that is yours, in order that you may not say, ‘It was I who made A′bram rich.’ <a id="chapter14_verse24"></a><b><sup>24 </sup></b>Nothing for me! Only what the young men have already eaten, and the share of the men who went with me, A′ner, Esh′col and Mam′re—let them take their share.”</p>
</body>
</html>
