<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="application/xhtml+xml; charset=utf-8" />
<title>Genesis 9</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/bi12.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
<p class="w_biblebookname">Genesis</p><p class="sb"><a id="chapter9"></a><a id="chapter9_verse1"></a><span class="w_ch"><b>9 </b></span>And God went on to bless Noah and his sons and to say to them: “Be fruitful and become many and fill the earth. <a id="chapter9_verse2"></a><b><sup>2 </sup></b>And a fear of <span class="smcap">YOU </span>and a terror of <span class="smcap">YOU </span>will continue upon every living creature of the earth and upon every flying creature of the heavens, upon everything that goes moving on the ground, and upon all the fishes of the sea. Into <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>hand they are now given. <a id="chapter9_verse3"></a><b><sup>3 </sup></b>Every moving animal that is alive may serve as food for <span class="smcap">YOU</span>. As in the case of green vegetation, I do give it all to <span class="smcap">YOU</span>. <a id="chapter9_verse4"></a><b><sup>4 </sup></b>Only flesh with its soul—its blood—<span class="smcap">YOU </span>must not eat. <a id="chapter9_verse5"></a><b><sup>5 </sup></b>And, besides that, <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>blood of <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>souls shall I ask back. From the hand of every living creature shall I ask it back; and from the hand of man, from the hand of each one who is his brother, shall I ask back the soul of man. <a id="chapter9_verse6"></a><b><sup>6 </sup></b>Anyone shedding man’s blood, by man will his own blood be shed, for in God’s image he made man. <a id="chapter9_verse7"></a><b><sup>7 </sup></b>And as for <span class="smcap">YOU </span>men, be fruitful and become many, make the earth swarm with <span class="smcap">YOU </span>and become many in it.”</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter9_verse8"></a><b><sup>8 </sup></b>And God went on to say to Noah and to his sons with him: <a id="chapter9_verse9"></a><b><sup>9 </sup></b>“And as for me, here I am establishing my covenant with <span class="smcap">YOU </span>men and with <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>offspring after <span class="smcap">YOU</span>, <a id="chapter9_verse10"></a><b><sup>10 </sup></b>and with every living soul that is with <span class="smcap">YOU</span>, among fowls, among beasts and among all living creatures of the earth with <span class="smcap">YOU</span>, from all those going out of the ark to every living creature of the earth. <a id="chapter9_verse11"></a><b><sup>11 </sup></b>Yes, I do establish my covenant with <span class="smcap">YOU</span>: No more will all flesh be cut off by waters of a deluge, and no more will there occur a deluge to bring the earth to ruin.”</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter9_verse12"></a><b><sup>12 </sup></b>And God added: “This is the sign of the covenant that I am giving between me and <span class="smcap">YOU </span>and every living soul that is with <span class="smcap">YOU</span>, for the generations to time indefinite. <a id="chapter9_verse13"></a><b><sup>13 </sup></b>My rainbow I do give in the cloud, and it must serve as a sign of the covenant between me and the earth. <a id="chapter9_verse14"></a><b><sup>14 </sup></b>And it shall occur that when I bring a cloud over the earth, then the rainbow will certainly appear in the cloud. <a id="chapter9_verse15"></a><b><sup>15 </sup></b>And I shall certainly remember my covenant which is between me and <span class="smcap">YOU </span>and every living soul among all flesh; and no more will the waters become a deluge to bring all flesh to ruin. <a id="chapter9_verse16"></a><b><sup>16 </sup></b>And the rainbow must occur <a id="page17"></a>in the cloud, and I shall certainly see it to remember the covenant to time indefinite between God and every living soul among all flesh that is upon the earth.”</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter9_verse17"></a><b><sup>17 </sup></b>And God repeated to Noah: “This is the sign of the covenant that I do establish between me and all flesh that is upon the earth.”</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter9_verse18"></a><b><sup>18 </sup></b>And Noah’s sons who came out of the ark were Shem and Ham and Ja′pheth. Later Ham was the father of Ca′naan. <a id="chapter9_verse19"></a><b><sup>19 </sup></b>These three were Noah’s sons, and from these was all the earth’s population spread abroad.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter9_verse20"></a><b><sup>20 </sup></b>Now Noah started off as a farmer and proceeded to plant a vineyard. <a id="chapter9_verse21"></a><b><sup>21 </sup></b>And he began drinking of the wine and became intoxicated, and so he uncovered himself in the midst of his tent. <a id="chapter9_verse22"></a><b><sup>22 </sup></b>Later Ham the father of Ca′naan saw his father’s nakedness and went telling it to his two brothers outside. <a id="chapter9_verse23"></a><b><sup>23 </sup></b>At that Shem and Ja′pheth took a mantle and put it upon both their shoulders and walked in backwards. Thus they covered their father’s nakedness, while their faces were turned away, and they did not see their father’s nakedness.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter9_verse24"></a><b><sup>24 </sup></b>Finally Noah awoke from his wine and got to know what his youngest son had done to him. <a id="chapter9_verse25"></a><b><sup>25 </sup></b>At this he said:</p>
<p class="sp">“Cursed be Ca′naan.</p>
<p class="sp">Let him become the lowest slave to his brothers.”</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter9_verse26"></a><b><sup>26 </sup></b>And he added:</p>
<p class="sp">“Blessed be Jehovah, Shem’s God,</p>
<p class="sz">And let Ca′naan become a slave to him.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter9_verse27"></a><b><sup>27 </sup></b>Let God grant ample space to Ja′pheth,</p>
<p class="sz">And let him reside in the tents of Shem.</p>
<p class="sz">Let Ca′naan become a slave to him also.”</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter9_verse28"></a><b><sup>28 </sup></b>And Noah continued to live three hundred and fifty years after the deluge. <a id="chapter9_verse29"></a><b><sup>29 </sup></b>So all the days of Noah amounted to nine hundred and fifty years and he died.</p>
</body>
</html>
