<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="application/xhtml+xml; charset=utf-8" />
<title>Genesis 25</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/bi12.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
<p class="w_biblebookname">Genesis</p><p class="sb"><a id="chapter25"></a><a id="chapter25_verse1"></a><span class="w_ch"><b>25 </b></span>Furthermore, Abraham again took a wife, and her name was Ke·tu′rah. <a id="chapter25_verse2"></a><b><sup>2 </sup></b>In time she bore him Zim′ran and Jok′shan and Me′dan and Mid′i·an and Ish′bak and Shu′ah.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter25_verse3"></a><b><sup>3 </sup></b>And Jok′shan became father to She′ba and De′dan.</p>
<p class="sb">And the sons of De′dan became As·shu′rim and Le·tu′shim and Le·um′mim.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter25_verse4"></a><b><sup>4 </sup></b>And the sons of Mid′i·an were E′phah and E′pher and Ha′noch and A·bi′da and El·da′ah.</p>
<p class="sb">All these were the sons of Ke·tu′rah.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter25_verse5"></a><b><sup>5 </sup></b>Later on Abraham gave everything he had to Isaac, <a id="chapter25_verse6"></a><b><sup>6 </sup></b>but to the sons of the concubines that Abraham had Abraham gave gifts. Then he sent them away from Isaac his son, while he was still alive, eastward, to the land of the East. <a id="chapter25_verse7"></a><b><sup>7 </sup></b>And these are the days of the years of Abraham’s life which he lived, a hundred and seventy-five years. <a id="chapter25_verse8"></a><b><sup>8 </sup></b>Then Abraham expired and died in a good old age, old and satisfied, and was gathered to his people. <a id="chapter25_verse9"></a><b><sup>9 </sup></b>So Isaac and Ish′ma·el his sons buried him in the cave of Mach·pe′lah in the field of E′phron the son of Zo′har the Hit′tite that is in front of Mam′re, <a id="chapter25_verse10"></a><b><sup>10 </sup></b>the field that Abraham had purchased from the sons of Heth. There Abraham was buried, and also Sarah his wife. <a id="chapter25_verse11"></a><b><sup>11 </sup></b>And it developed that after Abraham’s death God continued to bless Isaac his son, and Isaac <a id="page37"></a>was dwelling close by Be′er-la′hai-roi.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter25_verse12"></a><b><sup>12 </sup></b>And this is the history of Ish′ma·el the son of Abraham whom Ha′gar the Egyptian the maidservant of Sarah bore to Abraham.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter25_verse13"></a><b><sup>13 </sup></b>Now these are the names of the sons of Ish′ma·el, by their names, according to their family origins: Ish′ma·el’s firstborn Ne·ba′ioth and Ke′dar and Ad′be·el and Mib′sam <a id="chapter25_verse14"></a><b><sup>14 </sup></b>and Mish′ma and Du′mah and Mas′sa, <a id="chapter25_verse15"></a><b><sup>15 </sup></b>Ha′dad and Te′ma, Je′tur, Na′phish and Ked′e·mah. <a id="chapter25_verse16"></a><b><sup>16 </sup></b>These are the sons of Ish′ma·el, and these are their names by their courtyards and by their walled camps: twelve chieftains according to their clans. <a id="chapter25_verse17"></a><b><sup>17 </sup></b>And these are the years of Ish′ma·el’s life, a hundred and thirty-seven years. Then he expired and died and was gathered to his people. <a id="chapter25_verse18"></a><b><sup>18 </sup></b>And they took up tabernacling from Hav′i·lah near Shur, which is in front of Egypt, as far as As·syr′i·a. In front of all his brothers he settled down.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter25_verse19"></a><b><sup>19 </sup></b>And this is the history of Isaac the son of Abraham.</p>
<p class="sb">Abraham became father to Isaac. <a id="chapter25_verse20"></a><b><sup>20 </sup></b>And Isaac happened to be forty years old at his taking Re·bek′ah the daughter of Be·thu′el the Syrian of Pad′dan-a′ram, the sister of La′ban the Syrian, as his wife. <a id="chapter25_verse21"></a><b><sup>21 </sup></b>And Isaac kept on entreating Jehovah especially for his wife, because she was barren; so Jehovah let himself be entreated for him, and Re·bek′ah his wife became pregnant. <a id="chapter25_verse22"></a><b><sup>22 </sup></b>And the sons within her began to struggle with each other, so that she said: “If this is the way it is, just why am I alive?” With that she went to inquire of Jehovah. <a id="chapter25_verse23"></a><b><sup>23 </sup></b>And Jehovah proceeded to say to her: “Two nations are in your belly, and two national groups will be separated from your inward parts; and the one national group will be stronger than the other national group, and the older will serve the younger.”</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter25_verse24"></a><b><sup>24 </sup></b>Gradually her days came to the full for giving birth, and, look! twins were in her belly. <a id="chapter25_verse25"></a><b><sup>25 </sup></b>Then the first came out red all over like an official garment of hair; so they called his name E′sau. <a id="chapter25_verse26"></a><b><sup>26 </sup></b>And after that his brother came out and his hand was holding onto the heel of E′sau; so he called his name Jacob. And Isaac was sixty years old at her giving them birth.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter25_verse27"></a><b><sup>27 </sup></b>And the boys got bigger, and E′sau became a man knowing how to hunt, a man of the field, but Jacob a blameless man, dwelling in tents. <a id="chapter25_verse28"></a><b><sup>28 </sup></b>And Isaac had love for E′sau, because it meant game in his mouth, whereas Re·bek′ah was a lover of Jacob. <a id="chapter25_verse29"></a><b><sup>29 </sup></b>Once Jacob was boiling up some stew, when E′sau came along from the field and he was tired. <a id="chapter25_verse30"></a><b><sup>30 </sup></b>So E′sau said to Jacob: “Quick, please, give me a swallow of the red—the red there, for I am tired!” That is why his name was called E′dom. <a id="chapter25_verse31"></a><b><sup>31 </sup></b>To this Jacob said: “Sell me, first of all, your right as firstborn!” <a id="chapter25_verse32"></a><b><sup>32 </sup></b>And E′sau continued: “Here I am simply going to die, and of what benefit to me is a birthright?” <a id="chapter25_verse33"></a><b><sup>33 </sup></b>And Jacob added: “Swear to me first of all!” And he proceeded to swear to him and to sell his right as firstborn to Jacob. <a id="chapter25_verse34"></a><b><sup>34 </sup></b>And Jacob gave E′sau bread and lentil stew, and he went to eating and drinking. Then he got up and went his way. So E′sau despised the birthright.</p>
</body>
</html>
