<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="application/xhtml+xml; charset=utf-8" />
<title>Genesis 5</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/bi12.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
<p class="w_biblebookname">Genesis</p><p class="sb"><a id="chapter5"></a><a id="chapter5_verse1"></a><span class="w_ch"><b>5 </b></span>This is the book of Adam’s history. In the day of God’s creating Adam he made him in the likeness of God. <a id="chapter5_verse2"></a><b><sup>2 </sup></b>Male and female he created them. After that he blessed them and called their name Man in the day of their being created.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter5_verse3"></a><b><sup>3 </sup></b>And Adam lived on for a hundred and thirty years. Then he became father to a son in his likeness, in his image, and called his name Seth. <a id="chapter5_verse4"></a><b><sup>4 </sup></b>And the days of Adam after his fathering Seth came to be eight hundred years. Meanwhile he became father to sons and daughters. <a id="chapter5_verse5"></a><b><sup>5 </sup></b>So all the days of Adam that he lived amounted to nine hundred and thirty years and he died.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter5_verse6"></a><b><sup>6 </sup></b>And Seth lived on for a hundred and five years. Then he became father to E′nosh. <a id="chapter5_verse7"></a><b><sup>7 </sup></b>And after his fathering E′nosh Seth continued to live eight hundred and seven years. Meanwhile he became father to sons and daughters. <a id="chapter5_verse8"></a><b><sup>8 </sup></b>So all the days of Seth amounted to nine hundred and twelve years and he died.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter5_verse9"></a><b><sup>9 </sup></b>And E′nosh lived on for ninety years. Then he became father to Ke′nan. <a id="chapter5_verse10"></a><b><sup>10 </sup></b>And after his fathering Ke′nan E′nosh continued to live eight hundred and fifteen years. Meanwhile he became father to sons and daughters. <a id="chapter5_verse11"></a><b><sup>11 </sup></b>So all the days of E′nosh amounted to nine hundred and five years and he died.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter5_verse12"></a><b><sup>12 </sup></b>And Ke′nan lived on for seventy years. Then he became father to Ma·hal′a·lel. <a id="chapter5_verse13"></a><b><sup>13 </sup></b>And after his fathering Ma·hal′a·lel Ke′nan continued to live eight hundred and forty years. Meanwhile he became father to sons and daughters. <a id="chapter5_verse14"></a><b><sup>14 </sup></b>So all the days of Ke′nan amounted to nine hundred and ten years and he died.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter5_verse15"></a><b><sup>15 </sup></b>And Ma·hal′a·lel lived on for sixty-five years. Then he became father to Ja′red. <a id="chapter5_verse16"></a><b><sup>16 </sup></b>And after his fathering Ja′red Ma·hal′a·lel continued to live eight hundred and thirty years. Meanwhile he became father to sons and daughters. <a id="chapter5_verse17"></a><b><sup>17 </sup></b>So all the days of Ma·hal′a·lel amounted to eight hundred and ninety-five years and he died.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter5_verse18"></a><b><sup>18 </sup></b>And Ja′red lived on for a hundred and sixty-two years. Then he became father to E′noch. <a id="chapter5_verse19"></a><b><sup>19 </sup></b>And after his fathering E′noch Ja′red continued to live eight hundred years. Meanwhile he became father to sons and daughters. <a id="chapter5_verse20"></a><b><sup>20 </sup></b>So all the days of Ja′red amounted to nine hundred and sixty-two years and he died.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter5_verse21"></a><b><sup>21 </sup></b>And E′noch lived on for sixty-five years. Then he became father to Me·thu′se·lah. <a id="chapter5_verse22"></a><b><sup>22 </sup></b>And after his fathering Me·thu′se·lah E′noch went on walking with the true God three hundred years. Meanwhile he became father to sons and daughters. <a id="chapter5_verse23"></a><b><sup>23 </sup></b>So all the days of E′noch amounted to three hundred and sixty-five years. <a id="chapter5_verse24"></a><b><sup>24 </sup></b>And E′noch kept walking with the true God. Then he was no more, for God took him.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter5_verse25"></a><b><sup>25 </sup></b>And Me·thu′se·lah lived on for a hundred and eighty-seven years. Then he became father to La′mech. <a id="chapter5_verse26"></a><b><sup>26 </sup></b>And after his fathering La′mech Me·thu′se·lah <a id="page13"></a>continued to live seven hundred and eighty-two years. Meanwhile he became father to sons and daughters. <a id="chapter5_verse27"></a><b><sup>27 </sup></b>So all the days of Me·thu′se·lah amounted to nine hundred and sixty-nine years and he died.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter5_verse28"></a><b><sup>28 </sup></b>And La′mech lived on for a hundred and eighty-two years. Then he became father to a son. <a id="chapter5_verse29"></a><b><sup>29 </sup></b>And he proceeded to call his name Noah, saying: “This one will bring us comfort from our work and from the pain of our hands resulting from the ground which Jehovah has cursed.” <a id="chapter5_verse30"></a><b><sup>30 </sup></b>And after his fathering Noah La′mech continued to live five hundred and ninety-five years. Meanwhile he became father to sons and daughters. <a id="chapter5_verse31"></a><b><sup>31 </sup></b>So all the days of La′mech amounted to seven hundred and seventy-seven years and he died.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter5_verse32"></a><b><sup>32 </sup></b>And Noah got to be five hundred years old. After that Noah became father to Shem, Ham and Ja′pheth.</p>
</body>
</html>
