<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="application/xhtml+xml; charset=utf-8" />
<title>Exodus 11</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/bi12.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
<p class="w_biblebookname">Exodus</p><p class="sb"><a id="chapter11"></a><a id="chapter11_verse1"></a><span class="w_ch"><b>11 </b></span>And Jehovah proceeded to say to Moses: “One plague more I am going to bring upon Phar′aoh and Egypt. After that he will send <span class="smcap">YOU </span>away from here. At the time he sends <span class="smcap">YOU </span>away altogether, he will literally drive <span class="smcap">YOU </span>out from here. <a id="chapter11_verse2"></a><b><sup>2 </sup></b>Speak, now, in the ears of the people, that they should ask every man of his companion and every woman of her companion articles of silver and articles of gold.” <a id="chapter11_verse3"></a><b><sup>3 </sup></b>Accordingly Jehovah gave the people favor in the eyes of the Egyptians. The man Moses too was very great in the land of Egypt, in the eyes of Phar′aoh’s servants and in the eyes of the people.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter11_verse4"></a><b><sup>4 </sup></b>And Moses went on to say: “This is what Jehovah has said, ‘About midnight I am going out into the midst of Egypt, <a id="chapter11_verse5"></a><b><sup>5 </sup></b>and every firstborn in the land of Egypt must die, from the firstborn of Phar′aoh who is sitting on his throne to the firstborn of the maidservant who is at the hand mill and every firstborn of beast. <a id="chapter11_verse6"></a><b><sup>6 </sup></b>And there will certainly occur a great outcry in all the land of Egypt, the like of which has never yet occurred, and the like of which will never be brought about again. <a id="chapter11_verse7"></a><b><sup>7 </sup></b>But against any of the sons of Israel will no dog move eagerly its tongue, from man to beast; in <a id="page91"></a>order that <span class="smcap">YOU </span>people may know that Jehovah can make a distinction between the Egyptians and the sons of Israel.’ <a id="chapter11_verse8"></a><b><sup>8 </sup></b>And all these servants of yours will certainly come down to me and prostrate themselves to me, saying, ‘Go, you and all the people who follow your steps.’ And after that I shall go out.” With that he went out from Phar′aoh in the heat of anger.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter11_verse9"></a><b><sup>9 </sup></b>Then Jehovah said to Moses: “Phar′aoh will not listen to <span class="smcap">YOU </span>men, in order for my miracles to be increased in the land of Egypt.” <a id="chapter11_verse10"></a><b><sup>10 </sup></b>And Moses and Aaron performed all these miracles before Phar′aoh; but Jehovah would let Phar′aoh’s heart become obstinate, so that he did not send the sons of Israel away from his land.</p>
</body>
</html>
