<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="application/xhtml+xml; charset=utf-8" />
<title>Exodus 39</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/bi12.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
<p class="w_biblebookname">Exodus</p><p class="sb"><a id="chapter39"></a><a id="chapter39_verse1"></a><span class="w_ch"><b>39 </b></span>And out of the blue thread and wool dyed reddish purple and coccus scarlet material they made garments of knitted work for ministering in the holy place. So they made the holy garments that were for Aaron, just as Jehovah had commanded Moses.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter39_verse2"></a><b><sup>2 </sup></b>Accordingly he made the eph′od of gold, blue thread and wool dyed reddish purple and coccus scarlet material and fine twisted linen. <a id="chapter39_verse3"></a><b><sup>3 </sup></b>Then they beat plates of gold to thin sheets, and he cut out threads to work in among the blue thread and the wool dyed reddish purple and the coccus scarlet material and the fine linen, as the work of an embroiderer. <a id="chapter39_verse4"></a><b><sup>4 </sup></b>They made shoulder pieces for it that were joined. It was joined at its two extremities. <a id="chapter39_verse5"></a><b><sup>5 </sup></b>And the girdle, which was upon it for tying it close, was of the same material according to its workmanship, of gold, blue thread, and wool dyed reddish purple and coccus scarlet material and fine twisted linen, just as Jehovah had commanded Moses.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter39_verse6"></a><b><sup>6 </sup></b>Then they made the onyx stones set with settings of gold, engraved with the engravings of a seal according to the names of the sons of Israel. <a id="chapter39_verse7"></a><b><sup>7 </sup></b>So he placed them upon the shoulder pieces of the eph′od as memorial stones for the sons of Israel, <a id="page132"></a>just as Jehovah had commanded Moses. <a id="chapter39_verse8"></a><b><sup>8 </sup></b>Then he made the breastpiece with the workmanship of an embroiderer, like the workmanship of the eph′od, out of gold, blue thread and wool dyed reddish purple and coccus scarlet material and fine twisted linen. <a id="chapter39_verse9"></a><b><sup>9 </sup></b>It proved to be foursquare when doubled. They made the breastpiece, when doubled, a span of the hand in its length and a span in its width. <a id="chapter39_verse10"></a><b><sup>10 </sup></b>Then they filled it with four rows of stones. A row of ruby, topaz and emerald was the first row. <a id="chapter39_verse11"></a><b><sup>11 </sup></b>And the second row was turquoise, sapphire and jasper. <a id="chapter39_verse12"></a><b><sup>12 </sup></b>And the third row was <i>lesh′em </i>stone, agate and amethyst. <a id="chapter39_verse13"></a><b><sup>13 </sup></b>And the fourth row was chrys′o·lite and onyx and jade. They were set with settings of gold in their fillings. <a id="chapter39_verse14"></a><b><sup>14 </sup></b>And the stones were according to the names of the sons of Israel. They were twelve according to their names, with the engravings of a seal, each according to its name for the twelve tribes.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter39_verse15"></a><b><sup>15 </sup></b>And they proceeded to make upon the breastpiece wreathed chains, in ropework, of pure gold. <a id="chapter39_verse16"></a><b><sup>16 </sup></b>Then they made two settings of gold and two rings of gold and put the two rings upon the two extremities of the breastpiece. <a id="chapter39_verse17"></a><b><sup>17 </sup></b>After that they put the two ropes of gold through the two rings at the extremities of the breastpiece. <a id="chapter39_verse18"></a><b><sup>18 </sup></b>And they put the two ends of the two ropes through the two settings. Then they put them upon the shoulder pieces of the eph′od, at the forefront of it. <a id="chapter39_verse19"></a><b><sup>19 </sup></b>Next they made two rings of gold and set them at the two extremities of the breastpiece upon its edge that is on the side toward the eph′od inward. <a id="chapter39_verse20"></a><b><sup>20 </sup></b>Then they made two rings of gold and put them upon the two shoulder pieces of the eph′od from below, on its forefront, near its place of joining, above the girdle of the eph′od. <a id="chapter39_verse21"></a><b><sup>21 </sup></b>Finally they bound the breastpiece by its rings to the rings of the eph′od with a blue string, that it might continue above the girdle of the eph′od and the breastpiece might not get displaced from on top the eph′od, just as Jehovah had commanded Moses.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter39_verse22"></a><b><sup>22 </sup></b>Then he made the sleeveless coat of the eph′od, the workmanship of a loom worker, all of blue thread. <a id="chapter39_verse23"></a><b><sup>23 </sup></b>And the opening of the sleeveless coat was in the middle of it, like the opening of a coat of mail. Its opening had a border round about that it might not be torn. <a id="chapter39_verse24"></a><b><sup>24 </sup></b>Then they made upon the hem of the sleeveless coat pomegranates of blue thread and wool dyed reddish purple and coccus scarlet material, twisted together. <a id="chapter39_verse25"></a><b><sup>25 </sup></b>Further, they made bells of pure gold and put the bells in between the pomegranates upon the hem of the sleeveless coat round about, in between the pomegranates; <a id="chapter39_verse26"></a><b><sup>26 </sup></b>a bell and a pomegranate, a bell and a pomegranate upon the hem of the sleeveless coat round about, for ministering, just as Jehovah had commanded Moses.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter39_verse27"></a><b><sup>27 </sup></b>Next they made the robes of fine linen, the workmanship of a loom worker, for Aaron and his sons, <a id="chapter39_verse28"></a><b><sup>28 </sup></b>and the turban of fine linen and the ornamental headgears of fine linen and the linen drawers of fine twisted linen, <a id="chapter39_verse29"></a><b><sup>29 </sup></b>and the sash of fine twisted linen and blue thread and wool dyed reddish purple and coccus scarlet material, the work of a weaver, just as Jehovah had commanded Moses.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter39_verse30"></a><b><sup>30 </sup></b>Finally they made the shining plate, the holy sign of dedication, out of pure gold and inscribed upon it an inscription with the engravings of a seal: “Holiness belongs to Jehovah.” <a id="page133"></a><a id="chapter39_verse31"></a><b><sup>31 </sup></b>Then they put a string of blue thread to it in order to put it upon the turban up above, just as Jehovah had commanded Moses.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter39_verse32"></a><b><sup>32 </sup></b>So the work for the tabernacle of the tent of meeting all came to its completion, in that the sons of Israel kept doing according to all that Jehovah had commanded Moses. They did just so.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter39_verse33"></a><b><sup>33 </sup></b>And they proceeded to bring the tabernacle to Moses, the tent and all its utensils, its hooks, its panel frames, its bars and its pillars and its socket pedestals, <a id="chapter39_verse34"></a><b><sup>34 </sup></b>and its covering of ram skins dyed red and its covering of sealskins and the curtain of the screen, <a id="chapter39_verse35"></a><b><sup>35 </sup></b>and the ark of the testimony and its poles and the cover, <a id="chapter39_verse36"></a><b><sup>36 </sup></b>the table, all its utensils and the showbread, <a id="chapter39_verse37"></a><b><sup>37 </sup></b>the lampstand of pure gold, its lamps, the row of lamps, and all its utensils and the oil of illumination, <a id="chapter39_verse38"></a><b><sup>38 </sup></b>and the altar of gold and the anointing oil and the perfumed incense and the screen for the entrance of the tent, <a id="chapter39_verse39"></a><b><sup>39 </sup></b>the altar of copper and the grating of copper that belonged to it, its poles and all its utensils, the basin and its stand, <a id="chapter39_verse40"></a><b><sup>40 </sup></b>the hangings of the courtyard, its pillars and its socket pedestals and the screen for the gate of the courtyard, its tent cords and its tent pins and all the utensils for the service of the tabernacle, for the tent of meeting, <a id="chapter39_verse41"></a><b><sup>41 </sup></b>the garments of knitted work for ministering in the sanctuary, the holy garments for Aaron the priest and the garments of his sons for acting as priests.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter39_verse42"></a><b><sup>42 </sup></b>According to all that Jehovah had commanded Moses, that was the way the sons of Israel did all the service. <a id="chapter39_verse43"></a><b><sup>43 </sup></b>And Moses got to see all the work, and, look! they had done it just as Jehovah had commanded. That was the way they had done. Consequently Moses blessed them.</p>
</body>
</html>
