<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="application/xhtml+xml; charset=utf-8" />
<title>Exodus 5</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/bi12.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
<p class="w_biblebookname">Exodus</p><p class="sb"><a id="chapter5"></a><a id="chapter5_verse1"></a><span class="w_ch"><b>5 </b></span>And afterward Moses and Aaron went in and proceeded to say to Phar′aoh: “This is what Jehovah the God of Israel has said, ‘Send my people away that they may celebrate a festival to me in the wilderness.’” <a id="chapter5_verse2"></a><b><sup>2 </sup></b>But Phar′aoh said: “Who is Jehovah, so that I should obey his voice to send Israel away? I do not know Jehovah at all and, what is more, I am not going to send Israel away.” <a id="chapter5_verse3"></a><b><sup>3 </sup></b>However, they went on to say: “The God of the Hebrews has come in touch with us. We want to go, please, a journey of three days into the wilderness and sacrifice to Jehovah our God; otherwise he may strike at us with pestilence or with sword.” <a id="chapter5_verse4"></a><b><sup>4 </sup></b>At this the king of Egypt said to them: “Why is it, Moses and Aaron, that <span class="smcap">YOU </span>cause the people to leave off from their works? Go bearing <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>burdens!” <a id="chapter5_verse5"></a><b><sup>5 </sup></b>And Phar′aoh continued: “Look! The people of the land are now many, and <span class="smcap">YOU </span>indeed make them desist from their bearing of burdens.”</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter5_verse6"></a><b><sup>6 </sup></b>Immediately on that day Phar′aoh commanded those who drove the people to work and their officers, saying: <a id="chapter5_verse7"></a><b><sup>7 </sup></b>“Y<span class="smcap">OU </span>must not gather straw to give to the people to make bricks as formerly. Let them themselves go and gather straw for themselves. <a id="chapter5_verse8"></a><b><sup>8 </sup></b>Moreover, the required amount of bricks that they were making formerly, <span class="smcap">YOU </span>will further impose upon them. Y<span class="smcap">OU </span>must not make any reduction for them, because they are relaxing. That is why they are crying out, saying, ‘We want to go, we want to sacrifice to our God!’ <a id="chapter5_verse9"></a><b><sup>9 </sup></b>Let the service be heavy upon the men and let them work at it, and let them not pay attention to false words.”</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter5_verse10"></a><b><sup>10 </sup></b>So those who drove the people to work and their officers went out and said to the people: “Here is what Phar′aoh has said, ‘I am giving <span class="smcap">YOU </span>no more straw. <a id="chapter5_verse11"></a><b><sup>11 </sup></b>Y<span class="smcap">OU </span>yourselves go, get straw for yourselves wherever <span class="smcap">YOU </span>may find it, because there is to be no reducing of <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>services one bit.’” <a id="chapter5_verse12"></a><b><sup>12 </sup></b>Consequently the people scattered about over all the land of Egypt to gather stubble for straw. <a id="chapter5_verse13"></a><b><sup>13 </sup></b>And those who drove them to work kept urging them, saying: “Finish <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>works, each one his work, day for day, just as when straw was available.” <a id="chapter5_verse14"></a><b><sup>14 </sup></b>Later on the officers of the sons of Israel, whom Phar′aoh’s taskmasters had set over them, were beaten, these saying: “Why is it <span class="smcap">YOU </span>did not finish <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>prescribed task in making bricks as formerly, both yesterday and today?”</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter5_verse15"></a><b><sup>15 </sup></b>Consequently the officers of the sons of Israel went in and began to cry out to Phar′aoh, saying: “Why do you deal this way with your servants? <a id="chapter5_verse16"></a><b><sup>16 </sup></b>There is no straw given to your servants and yet they are saying to us, ‘Make bricks!’ and here your servants are beaten, whereas your own people are at fault.” <a id="chapter5_verse17"></a><b><sup>17 </sup></b>But he said: “Y<span class="smcap">OU </span>are relaxing, <span class="smcap">YOU </span>are relaxing! That is why <span class="smcap">YOU </span>are saying, ‘We want to go, we want to sacrifice to Jehovah.’ <a id="chapter5_verse18"></a><b><sup>18 </sup></b>And now go, serve! Though no straw will be given to <span class="smcap">YOU</span>, yet <span class="smcap">YOU </span>are to give the fixed amount of bricks.”</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter5_verse19"></a><b><sup>19 </sup></b>Then the officers of the sons of Israel saw themselves in an evil plight at the saying: “Y<span class="smcap">OU </span>must not deduct from <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>bricks one bit of anyone’s daily rate.” <a id="chapter5_verse20"></a><b><sup>20 </sup></b>After that they encountered Moses and Aaron, who were standing there to meet them as they came out from Phar′aoh. <a id="chapter5_verse21"></a><b><sup>21 </sup></b>At once they said to them: “May Jehovah look upon <a id="page83"></a><span class="smcap">YOU </span>and judge, since <span class="smcap">YOU </span>have made us smell offensive before Phar′aoh and before his servants so as to put a sword in their hand to kill us.” <a id="chapter5_verse22"></a><b><sup>22 </sup></b>Then Moses turned to Jehovah and said: “Jehovah, why have you caused evil to this people? Why is it that you have sent me? <a id="chapter5_verse23"></a><b><sup>23 </sup></b>For from the time that I went in before Phar′aoh to speak in your name, he has done evil to this people, and you have by no means delivered your people.”</p>
</body>
</html>
