<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="application/xhtml+xml; charset=utf-8" />
<title>Exodus 12</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/bi12.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
<p class="w_biblebookname">Exodus</p><p class="sb"><a id="chapter12"></a><a id="chapter12_verse1"></a><span class="w_ch"><b>12 </b></span>Jehovah now said to Moses and Aaron in the land of Egypt: <a id="chapter12_verse2"></a><b><sup>2 </sup></b>“This month will be the start of the months for <span class="smcap">YOU</span>. It will be the first of the months of the year for <span class="smcap">YOU</span>. <a id="chapter12_verse3"></a><b><sup>3 </sup></b>Speak to the entire assembly of Israel, saying, ‘On the tenth day of this month they are to take for themselves each one a sheep for the ancestral house, a sheep to a house. <a id="chapter12_verse4"></a><b><sup>4 </sup></b>But if the household proves to be too small for the sheep, then he and his neighbor close by must take it into his house according to the number of souls; <span class="smcap">YOU </span>should compute each one proportionate to his eating as regards the sheep. <a id="chapter12_verse5"></a><b><sup>5 </sup></b>The sheep should prove to be sound, a male, a year old, for <span class="smcap">YOU</span>. Y<span class="smcap">OU </span>may pick from the young rams or from the goats. <a id="chapter12_verse6"></a><b><sup>6 </sup></b>And it must continue under safeguard by <span class="smcap">YOU </span>until the fourteenth day of this month, and the whole congregation of the assembly of Israel must slaughter it between the two evenings. <a id="chapter12_verse7"></a><b><sup>7 </sup></b>And they must take some of the blood and splash it upon the two doorposts and the upper part of the doorway belonging to the houses in which they will eat it.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter12_verse8"></a><b><sup>8 </sup></b>“‘And they must eat the flesh on this night. They should eat it roasted with fire and with unfermented cakes along with bitter greens. <a id="chapter12_verse9"></a><b><sup>9 </sup></b>Do not eat any of it raw or boiled, cooked in water, but roast with fire, its head together with its shanks and its interior parts. <a id="chapter12_verse10"></a><b><sup>10 </sup></b>And <span class="smcap">YOU </span>must not leave any of it over till morning, but what is left over of it till morning <span class="smcap">YOU </span>should burn with fire. <a id="chapter12_verse11"></a><b><sup>11 </sup></b>And in this way <span class="smcap">YOU </span>should eat it, with <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>hips girded, sandals on <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>feet and <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>staff in <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>hand; and <span class="smcap">YOU </span>must eat it in haste. It is Jehovah’s passover. <a id="chapter12_verse12"></a><b><sup>12 </sup></b>And I must pass through the land of Egypt on this night and strike every firstborn in the land of Egypt, from man to beast; and on all the gods of Egypt I shall execute judgments. I am Jehovah. <a id="chapter12_verse13"></a><b><sup>13 </sup></b>And the blood must serve as <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>sign upon the houses where <span class="smcap">YOU </span>are; and I must see the blood and pass over <span class="smcap">YOU</span>, and the plague will not come on <span class="smcap">YOU </span>as a ruination when I strike at the land of Egypt.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter12_verse14"></a><b><sup>14 </sup></b>“‘And this day must serve as a memorial for <span class="smcap">YOU</span>, and <span class="smcap">YOU </span>must celebrate it as a festival to Jehovah throughout <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>generations. As a statute to time indefinite <span class="smcap">YOU </span>should celebrate it. <a id="chapter12_verse15"></a><b><sup>15 </sup></b>Seven days <span class="smcap">YOU </span>are to eat unfermented cakes. Yes, on the first day <span class="smcap">YOU </span>are to take away sourdough from <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>houses, because anyone eating what is leavened, from the first day down to the seventh, that soul must be cut off from Israel. <a id="chapter12_verse16"></a><b><sup>16 </sup></b>And on the first day there is to take place for <span class="smcap">YOU </span>a holy convention, and on the seventh day a holy convention. No work is to be done <a id="page92"></a>on them. Only what every soul needs to eat, that alone may be done for <span class="smcap">YOU</span>.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter12_verse17"></a><b><sup>17 </sup></b>“‘And <span class="smcap">YOU </span>must keep the festival of unfermented cakes, because on this very day I must bring <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>armies out from the land of Egypt. And <span class="smcap">YOU </span>must keep this day throughout <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>generations as a statute to time indefinite. <a id="chapter12_verse18"></a><b><sup>18 </sup></b>In the first month, on the fourteenth day of the month, in the evening <span class="smcap">YOU </span>are to eat unfermented cakes down till the twenty-first day of the month in the evening. <a id="chapter12_verse19"></a><b><sup>19 </sup></b>Seven days no sourdough is to be found in <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>houses, because anyone tasting what is leavened, whether he is an alien resident or a native of the land, that soul must be cut off from the assembly of Israel. <a id="chapter12_verse20"></a><b><sup>20 </sup></b>Nothing leavened are <span class="smcap">YOU </span>to eat. In all <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>dwellings <span class="smcap">YOU </span>are to eat unfermented cakes.’”</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter12_verse21"></a><b><sup>21 </sup></b>Promptly Moses called all the older men of Israel and said to them: “Draw out and take for yourselves small cattle according to <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>families, and slaughter the passover victim. <a id="chapter12_verse22"></a><b><sup>22 </sup></b>And <span class="smcap">YOU </span>must take a bunch of hyssop and dip it into the blood in a basin and strike upon the upper part of the doorway and upon the two doorposts some of the blood that is in the basin; and none of <span class="smcap">YOU </span>should go out of the entrance of his house until morning. <a id="chapter12_verse23"></a><b><sup>23 </sup></b>Then when Jehovah does pass through to plague the Egyptians and does see the blood upon the upper part of the doorway and upon the two doorposts, Jehovah will certainly pass over the entrance, and he will not allow the ruination to enter into <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>houses to plague <span class="smcap">YOU</span>.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter12_verse24"></a><b><sup>24 </sup></b>“And <span class="smcap">YOU </span>must keep this thing as a regulation for you and your sons to time indefinite. <a id="chapter12_verse25"></a><b><sup>25 </sup></b>And it must occur that when <span class="smcap">YOU </span>come into the land that Jehovah will give <span class="smcap">YOU</span>, just as he has stated, then <span class="smcap">YOU </span>must keep this service. <a id="chapter12_verse26"></a><b><sup>26 </sup></b>And it must occur that when <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>sons say to <span class="smcap">YOU</span>, ‘What does this service mean to <span class="smcap">YOU</span>?’ <a id="chapter12_verse27"></a><b><sup>27 </sup></b>then <span class="smcap">YOU </span>must say, ‘It is the sacrifice of the passover to Jehovah, who passed over the houses of the sons of Israel in Egypt when he plagued the Egyptians, but he delivered our houses.’”</p>
<p class="sb">Then the people bowed low and prostrated themselves. <a id="chapter12_verse28"></a><b><sup>28 </sup></b>Subsequently the sons of Israel went and did just as Jehovah had commanded Moses and Aaron. They did just so.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter12_verse29"></a><b><sup>29 </sup></b>And it came about that at midnight Jehovah struck every firstborn in the land of Egypt, from the firstborn of Phar′aoh sitting on his throne to the firstborn of the captive who was in the prison hole, and every firstborn of beast. <a id="chapter12_verse30"></a><b><sup>30 </sup></b>Then Phar′aoh got up at night, he and all his servants and all other Egyptians; and there began arising a great outcry among the Egyptians, because there was not a house where there was not one dead. <a id="chapter12_verse31"></a><b><sup>31 </sup></b>At once he called Moses and Aaron by night and said: “Get up, get out from the midst of my people, both <span class="smcap">YOU </span>and the other sons of Israel, and go, serve Jehovah, just as <span class="smcap">YOU </span>have stated. <a id="chapter12_verse32"></a><b><sup>32 </sup></b>Take both <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>flocks and <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>herds, just as <span class="smcap">YOU </span>have stated, and go. Also, <span class="smcap">YOU </span>must bless me besides.”</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter12_verse33"></a><b><sup>33 </sup></b>And the Egyptians began to urge the people in order to send them away quickly out of the land, “because,” they said, “we are all as good as dead!” <a id="chapter12_verse34"></a><b><sup>34 </sup></b>Consequently the people carried their flour dough before it was leavened, with their kneading troughs wrapped up in their mantles upon their shoulder. <a id="chapter12_verse35"></a><b><sup>35 </sup></b>And the sons of Israel did according to the word of Moses in that they went asking from the Egyptians articles of silver <a id="page93"></a>and articles of gold and mantles. <a id="chapter12_verse36"></a><b><sup>36 </sup></b>And Jehovah gave the people favor in the eyes of the Egyptians, so that these granted them what was asked; and they stripped the Egyptians.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter12_verse37"></a><b><sup>37 </sup></b>And the sons of Israel proceeded to depart from Ram′e·ses for Suc′coth, to the number of six hundred thousand able-bodied men on foot, besides little ones. <a id="chapter12_verse38"></a><b><sup>38 </sup></b>And a vast mixed company also went up with them, as well as flocks and herds, a very numerous stock of animals. <a id="chapter12_verse39"></a><b><sup>39 </sup></b>And they began to bake the flour dough that they had brought out from Egypt into round cakes, unfermented cakes, because it had not leavened, for they had been driven out of Egypt and had not been able to linger and too they had not prepared any provisions for themselves.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter12_verse40"></a><b><sup>40 </sup></b>And the dwelling of the sons of Israel, who had dwelt in Egypt, was four hundred and thirty years. <a id="chapter12_verse41"></a><b><sup>41 </sup></b>And it came about at the end of the four hundred and thirty years, it even came about on this very day that all the armies of Jehovah went out of the land of Egypt. <a id="chapter12_verse42"></a><b><sup>42 </sup></b>It is a night for observance with regard to Jehovah for bringing them out of the land of Egypt. With regard to Jehovah this night is one for observance on the part of all the sons of Israel throughout their generations.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter12_verse43"></a><b><sup>43 </sup></b>And Jehovah went on to say to Moses and Aaron: “This is the statute of the passover: No foreigner may eat of it. <a id="chapter12_verse44"></a><b><sup>44 </sup></b>But where there is any slave man purchased with money, you must circumcise him. Then first he may share in eating it. <a id="chapter12_verse45"></a><b><sup>45 </sup></b>A settler and a hired laborer may not eat of it. <a id="chapter12_verse46"></a><b><sup>46 </sup></b>In one house it is to be eaten. You must not take any of the flesh out of the house to some place outside. And <span class="smcap">YOU </span>must not break a bone in it. <a id="chapter12_verse47"></a><b><sup>47 </sup></b>All the assembly of Israel are to celebrate it. <a id="chapter12_verse48"></a><b><sup>48 </sup></b>And in case an alien resident resides as an alien with you and he will actually celebrate the passover to Jehovah, let there be a circumcising of every male of his. First then he may come near to celebrate it; and he must become like a native of the land. But no uncircumcised man may eat of it. <a id="chapter12_verse49"></a><b><sup>49 </sup></b>One law is to exist for the native and for the alien resident who is residing as an alien in <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>midst.”</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter12_verse50"></a><b><sup>50 </sup></b>So all the sons of Israel did just as Jehovah had commanded Moses and Aaron. They did just so. <a id="chapter12_verse51"></a><b><sup>51 </sup></b>And it came about on this very day that Jehovah brought the sons of Israel together with their armies out of the land of Egypt.</p>
</body>
</html>
