<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="application/xhtml+xml; charset=utf-8" />
<title>Exodus 3</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/bi12.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
<p class="w_biblebookname">Exodus</p><p class="sb"><a id="chapter3"></a><a id="chapter3_verse1"></a><span class="w_ch"><b>3 </b></span>And Moses became a shepherd of the flock of Jeth′ro, the priest of Mid′i·an, whose son-in-law he was. While he was driving the flock to the west side of the wilderness, he came at length to the mountain of the true God, to Ho′reb. <a id="chapter3_verse2"></a><b><sup>2 </sup></b>Then Jehovah’s angel appeared to him in a flame of fire in the midst of a thornbush. As he kept looking, why, here the thornbush was burning with the fire and yet the thornbush was not consumed. <a id="chapter3_verse3"></a><b><sup>3 </sup></b>At this Moses said: “Let me just turn aside that I may inspect this great phenomenon, as to why the thornbush is not burnt up.” <a id="chapter3_verse4"></a><b><sup>4 </sup></b>When Jehovah saw that he turned aside to inspect, God at once called to him out of the midst of the thornbush and said: “Moses! Moses!” to which he said: “Here I am.” <a id="chapter3_verse5"></a><b><sup>5 </sup></b>Then he said: “Do not come near here. Draw your sandals from off your feet, because the place where you are standing is holy ground.”</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter3_verse6"></a><b><sup>6 </sup></b>And he went on to say: “I am the God of your father, the God of Abraham, the God of Isaac and the God of Jacob.” Then Moses concealed his face, because he was afraid to look at the true God. <a id="chapter3_verse7"></a><b><sup>7 </sup></b>And Jehovah added: “Unquestionably I have seen the affliction of my people who are in Egypt, and I have heard their outcry as a result of those who drive them to work; because I well know the pains they suffer. <a id="chapter3_verse8"></a><b><sup>8 </sup></b>And I am proceeding to go down to deliver them out of the hand of the Egyptians and to bring them up out of that land to a land good and spacious, to a land flowing with milk and honey, to the locality of the Ca′naan·ites and the Hit′tites and the Am′or·ites and the Per′iz·zites and the Hi′vites and the Jeb′u·sites. <a id="chapter3_verse9"></a><b><sup>9 </sup></b>And now, look! the outcry of the sons of Israel has come to me, and I have seen also the oppression with which the Egyptians are oppressing them. <a id="chapter3_verse10"></a><b><sup>10 </sup></b>And now come and let me send you to Phar′aoh, and you bring my people the sons of Israel out of Egypt.”</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter3_verse11"></a><b><sup>11 </sup></b>However, Moses said to the true God: “Who am I that I should go to Phar′aoh and that I have to bring the sons of Israel out of Egypt?” <a id="chapter3_verse12"></a><b><sup>12 </sup></b>To this he said: “Because I shall prove to be with you, and this is the sign for you that it is I who have sent you: After you have brought the people out of Egypt, <span class="smcap">YOU </span>people will serve the true God on this mountain.”</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter3_verse13"></a><b><sup>13 </sup></b>Nevertheless, Moses said to the true God: “Suppose I am now come to the sons of Israel and I do say to them, ‘The God of <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>forefathers has sent me to <span class="smcap">YOU</span>,’ and they do say to me, ‘What is his name?’ What shall I say to them?” <a id="chapter3_verse14"></a><b><sup>14 </sup></b>At this God said to Moses: “I <span class="smcap">SHALL PROVE TO BE WHAT </span>I <span class="smcap">SHALL PROVE TO BE</span>.” And he added: “This is what you are to say to the sons of Israel, ‘I <span class="smcap">SHALL PROVE TO BE </span>has sent me to <span class="smcap">YOU</span>.’” <a id="chapter3_verse15"></a><b><sup>15 </sup></b>Then God said once more to Moses:</p>
<p class="sb">“This is what you are to say to the sons of Israel, ‘Jehovah the God of <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>forefathers, the God <a id="page80"></a>of Abraham, the God of Isaac and the God of Jacob, has sent me to <span class="smcap">YOU</span>.’ This is my name to time indefinite, and this is the memorial of me to generation after generation. <a id="chapter3_verse16"></a><b><sup>16 </sup></b>You go, and you must gather the older men of Israel, and you must say to them, ‘Jehovah the God of <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>forefathers has appeared to me, the God of Abraham, Isaac and Jacob, saying: “I will without fail give attention to <span class="smcap">YOU </span>and to what is being done to <span class="smcap">YOU </span>in Egypt. <a id="chapter3_verse17"></a><b><sup>17 </sup></b>And so I say, I shall bring <span class="smcap">YOU </span>up out of affliction by the Egyptians to the land of the Ca′naan·ites and the Hit′tites and the Am′or·ites and the Per′iz·zites and the Hi′vites and the Jeb′u·sites, to a land flowing with milk and honey.”’</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter3_verse18"></a><b><sup>18 </sup></b>“And they will certainly listen to your voice, and you must come, you and the older men of Israel, to the king of Egypt, and <span class="smcap">YOU </span>men must say to him, ‘Jehovah the God of the Hebrews has come in touch with us, and now we want to go, please, a journey of three days into the wilderness, and we want to sacrifice to Jehovah our God.’ <a id="chapter3_verse19"></a><b><sup>19 </sup></b>And I, even I, well know that the king of Egypt will not give <span class="smcap">YOU </span>permission to go except by a strong hand. <a id="chapter3_verse20"></a><b><sup>20 </sup></b>And I shall have to stretch out my hand and strike Egypt with all my wonderful acts that I shall do in the midst of it; and after that he will send <span class="smcap">YOU </span>out. <a id="chapter3_verse21"></a><b><sup>21 </sup></b>And I will give this people favor in the eyes of the Egyptians; and it will certainly occur that when <span class="smcap">YOU </span>go, <span class="smcap">YOU </span>will not go empty-handed. <a id="chapter3_verse22"></a><b><sup>22 </sup></b>And each woman must ask from her neighbor and from the woman residing as an alien in her house articles of silver and articles of gold and mantles, and <span class="smcap">YOU </span>must put them upon <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>sons and <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>daughters; and <span class="smcap">YOU </span>must strip the Egyptians.”</p>
</body>
</html>
