<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="application/xhtml+xml; charset=utf-8" />
<title>Leviticus 18</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/bi12.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
<p class="w_biblebookname">Leviticus</p><p class="sb"><a id="chapter18"></a><a id="chapter18_verse1"></a><span class="w_ch"><b>18 </b></span>And Jehovah continued to speak to Moses, saying: <a id="chapter18_verse2"></a><b><sup>2 </sup></b>“Speak to the sons of Israel, and you must say to them, ‘I am Jehovah <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>God. <a id="chapter18_verse3"></a><b><sup>3 </sup></b>The way the land of Egypt does, in which <span class="smcap">YOU </span>dwelt, <span class="smcap">YOU </span>must not do; and the way the land of Ca′naan does, into which I am bringing <span class="smcap">YOU</span>, <span class="smcap">YOU </span>must not do; and in their statutes <span class="smcap">YOU </span>must not walk. <a id="chapter18_verse4"></a><b><sup>4 </sup></b>My judicial decisions <span class="smcap">YOU </span>should carry out, and my statutes <span class="smcap">YOU </span>should keep so as to walk in them. I am Jehovah <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>God. <a id="chapter18_verse5"></a><b><sup>5 </sup></b>And <span class="smcap">YOU </span>must keep my statutes and my judicial decisions, which if a man will do, he must also live by means of them. I am Jehovah.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter18_verse6"></a><b><sup>6 </sup></b>“‘Y<span class="smcap">OU </span>people must not come near, any man of <span class="smcap">YOU</span>, to any close fleshly relative of his to lay bare nakedness. I am Jehovah. <a id="chapter18_verse7"></a><b><sup>7 </sup></b>The nakedness of your father and the nakedness of your mother you must not lay bare. She is your mother. You must not lay bare her nakedness.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter18_verse8"></a><b><sup>8 </sup></b>“‘The nakedness of your father’s wife you must not lay bare. It is your father’s nakedness.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter18_verse9"></a><b><sup>9 </sup></b>“‘As for the nakedness of your sister, the daughter of your father or the daughter of your mother, whether born in the same household or born outside it, you must not lay bare their nakedness.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter18_verse10"></a><b><sup>10 </sup></b>“‘As for the nakedness of the daughter of your son or the daughter of your daughter, you must not lay bare their nakedness, because they are your nakedness.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter18_verse11"></a><b><sup>11 </sup></b>“‘As for the nakedness of the daughter of your father’s wife, the offspring of your father, she being your sister, you must not lay bare her nakedness.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter18_verse12"></a><b><sup>12 </sup></b>“‘The nakedness of your father’s sister you must not lay bare. She is the blood relation of your father.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter18_verse13"></a><b><sup>13 </sup></b>“‘The nakedness of your mother’s sister you must not lay bare, because she is a blood relation of your mother.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter18_verse14"></a><b><sup>14 </sup></b>“‘The nakedness of your father’s brother you must not lay <a id="page161"></a>bare. You must not come near his wife. She is your aunt.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter18_verse15"></a><b><sup>15 </sup></b>“‘The nakedness of your daughter-in-law you must not lay bare. She is your son’s wife. You must not lay her nakedness bare.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter18_verse16"></a><b><sup>16 </sup></b>“‘The nakedness of your brother’s wife you must not lay bare. It is your brother’s nakedness.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter18_verse17"></a><b><sup>17 </sup></b>“‘The nakedness of a woman and her daughter you must not lay bare. The daughter of her son and the daughter of her daughter you must not take in order to lay her nakedness bare. They are cases of blood relationship. It is loose conduct.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter18_verse18"></a><b><sup>18 </sup></b>“‘And you must not take a woman in addition to her sister as a rival to uncover her nakedness, that is, besides her during her lifetime.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter18_verse19"></a><b><sup>19 </sup></b>“‘And you must not come near a woman during the menstruation of her impurity to lay her nakedness bare.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter18_verse20"></a><b><sup>20 </sup></b>“‘And you must not give your emission as semen to the wife of your associate to become unclean by it.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter18_verse21"></a><b><sup>21 </sup></b>“‘And you must not allow the devoting of any of your offspring to Mo′lech. You must not profane the name of your God that way. I am Jehovah.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter18_verse22"></a><b><sup>22 </sup></b>“‘And you must not lie down with a male the same as you lie down with a woman. It is a detestable thing.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter18_verse23"></a><b><sup>23 </sup></b>“‘And you must not give your emission to any beast to become unclean by it, and a woman should not stand before a beast to have connection with it. It is a violation of what is natural.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter18_verse24"></a><b><sup>24 </sup></b>“‘Do not make yourselves unclean by any of these things, because by all these things the nations whom I am sending out from before <span class="smcap">YOU </span>have made themselves unclean. <a id="chapter18_verse25"></a><b><sup>25 </sup></b>Consequently the land is unclean, and I shall bring punishment for its error upon it, and the land will vomit its inhabitants out. <a id="chapter18_verse26"></a><b><sup>26 </sup></b>And <span class="smcap">YOU </span>yourselves must keep my statutes and my judicial decisions, and <span class="smcap">YOU </span>must not do any of all these detestable things, whether a native or an alien resident who is residing as an alien in <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>midst. <a id="chapter18_verse27"></a><b><sup>27 </sup></b>For all these detestable things the men of the land who were before <span class="smcap">YOU </span>have done, so that the land is unclean. <a id="chapter18_verse28"></a><b><sup>28 </sup></b>Then the land will not vomit <span class="smcap">YOU </span>out for <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>defiling it the same way as it will certainly vomit the nations out who were before <span class="smcap">YOU</span>. <a id="chapter18_verse29"></a><b><sup>29 </sup></b>In case anyone does any of all these detestable things, then the souls doing them must be cut off from among their people. <a id="chapter18_verse30"></a><b><sup>30 </sup></b>And <span class="smcap">YOU </span>must keep <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>obligation to me not to carry on any of the detestable customs that have been carried on before <span class="smcap">YOU</span>, that <span class="smcap">YOU </span>may not make yourselves unclean by them. I am Jehovah <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>God.’”</p>
</body>
</html>
