<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="application/xhtml+xml; charset=utf-8" />
<title>Leviticus 16</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/bi12.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
<p class="w_biblebookname">Leviticus</p><p class="sb"><a id="chapter16"></a><a id="chapter16_verse1"></a><span class="w_ch"><b>16 </b></span>And Jehovah proceeded to speak to Moses after the death of Aaron’s two sons for their approaching before Jehovah so that they died. <a id="chapter16_verse2"></a><b><sup>2 </sup></b>And Jehovah proceeded to say to Moses: “Speak to Aaron your brother, that he should not at all times come into the holy place inside the curtain, in front of the cover which is upon the Ark, that he may not die; because in a cloud I shall appear over the cover.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter16_verse3"></a><b><sup>3 </sup></b>“With the following Aaron should come into the holy place: with a young bull for a sin offering and a ram for a burnt offering. <a id="chapter16_verse4"></a><b><sup>4 </sup></b>He should put on the holy linen robe, and the linen drawers should come upon his flesh, and he should gird himself with the linen sash and wrap himself with the linen turban. They are holy garments. And he must bathe his flesh in water and put them on.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter16_verse5"></a><b><sup>5 </sup></b>“And from the assembly of the sons of Israel he should take two male kids of the goats for a sin offering and one ram for a burnt offering.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter16_verse6"></a><b><sup>6 </sup></b>“And Aaron must present the bull of the sin offering, which is for himself, and he must make atonement in behalf of himself and his house.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter16_verse7"></a><b><sup>7 </sup></b>“And he must take the two goats and make them stand before Jehovah at the entrance of the tent of meeting. <a id="chapter16_verse8"></a><b><sup>8 </sup></b>And Aaron must draw lots over the two goats, the one lot for Jehovah and the other lot for A·za′zel. <a id="chapter16_verse9"></a><b><sup>9 </sup></b>And Aaron must present the goat over which the lot came up for Jehovah, and he must make it a sin offering. <a id="chapter16_verse10"></a><b><sup>10 </sup></b>But the goat over which the lot came up for A·za′zel should be stood alive <a id="page158"></a>before Jehovah to make atonement for it, so as to send it away for A·za′zel into the wilderness.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter16_verse11"></a><b><sup>11 </sup></b>“And Aaron must present the bull of the sin offering, which is for himself, and make an atonement in behalf of himself and his house; and he must slaughter the bull of the sin offering, which is for himself.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter16_verse12"></a><b><sup>12 </sup></b>“And he must take the fire holder full of burning coals of fire from off the altar before Jehovah, and the hollows of both his hands full of fine perfumed incense, and he must bring them inside the curtain. <a id="chapter16_verse13"></a><b><sup>13 </sup></b>He must also put the incense upon the fire before Jehovah, and the cloud of the incense must overspread the Ark cover, which is upon the Testimony, that he may not die.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter16_verse14"></a><b><sup>14 </sup></b>“And he must take some of the bull’s blood and spatter it with his finger in front of the cover on the east side, and he will spatter some of the blood with his finger seven times before the cover.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter16_verse15"></a><b><sup>15 </sup></b>“And he must slaughter the goat of the sin offering, which is for the people, and he must bring its blood inside the curtain and do with its blood the same as he did with the bull’s blood; and he must spatter it toward the cover and before the cover.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter16_verse16"></a><b><sup>16 </sup></b>“And he must make atonement for the holy place concerning the uncleannesses of the sons of Israel and concerning their revolts in all their sins; and that is the way he should do for the tent of meeting, which is residing with them in the midst of their uncleannesses.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter16_verse17"></a><b><sup>17 </sup></b>“And no other man should happen to be in the tent of meeting from when he goes in to make atonement in the holy place until he comes out; and he must make atonement in behalf of himself and in behalf of his house and in behalf of the entire congregation of Israel.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter16_verse18"></a><b><sup>18 </sup></b>“And he must come out to the altar, which is before Jehovah, and make atonement for it, and he must take some of the bull’s blood and some of the goat’s blood and put it upon the horns of the altar round about. <a id="chapter16_verse19"></a><b><sup>19 </sup></b>He must also spatter some of the blood upon it with his finger seven times and cleanse it and sanctify it from the uncleannesses of the sons of Israel.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter16_verse20"></a><b><sup>20 </sup></b>“When he has finished making atonement for the holy place and the tent of meeting and the altar, he must also present the live goat. <a id="chapter16_verse21"></a><b><sup>21 </sup></b>And Aaron must lay both his hands upon the head of the live goat and confess over it all the errors of the sons of Israel and all their revolts in all their sins, and he must put them upon the head of the goat and send it away by the hand of a ready man into the wilderness. <a id="chapter16_verse22"></a><b><sup>22 </sup></b>And the goat must carry upon itself all their errors into a desert land, and he must send the goat away into the wilderness.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter16_verse23"></a><b><sup>23 </sup></b>“And Aaron must come into the tent of meeting and strip off the linen garments that he put on when he went into the holy place, and he must lay them down there. <a id="chapter16_verse24"></a><b><sup>24 </sup></b>And he must bathe his flesh in water in a holy place and put on his garments and come out and render up his burnt offering and the people’s burnt offering and make atonement in his own behalf and in behalf of the people. <a id="chapter16_verse25"></a><b><sup>25 </sup></b>And he will make the fat of the sin offering smoke upon the altar.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter16_verse26"></a><b><sup>26 </sup></b>“As for the one who sent the goat away for A·za′zel, he <a id="page159"></a>should wash his garments, and he must bathe his flesh in water, and after that he may come into the camp.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter16_verse27"></a><b><sup>27 </sup></b>“However, he will have the bull of the sin offering and the goat of the sin offering, the blood of both of which was brought in to make atonement in the holy place, taken forth outside the camp; and they must burn their skins and their flesh and their dung in the fire. <a id="chapter16_verse28"></a><b><sup>28 </sup></b>And the one who burned them should wash his garments, and he must bathe his flesh in water, and after that he may come into the camp.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter16_verse29"></a><b><sup>29 </sup></b>“And it must serve as a statute to time indefinite for <span class="smcap">YOU </span>people: In the seventh month on the tenth of the month <span class="smcap">YOU </span>should afflict <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>souls, and <span class="smcap">YOU </span>must not do any work, either the native or the alien resident who is residing as an alien in <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>midst. <a id="chapter16_verse30"></a><b><sup>30 </sup></b>For on this day atonement will be made for <span class="smcap">YOU </span>to pronounce <span class="smcap">YOU </span>clean. Y<span class="smcap">OU </span>will be clean from all <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>sins before Jehovah. <a id="chapter16_verse31"></a><b><sup>31 </sup></b>It is a sabbath of complete rest for <span class="smcap">YOU</span>, and <span class="smcap">YOU </span>must afflict <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>souls. It is a statute to time indefinite.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter16_verse32"></a><b><sup>32 </sup></b>“And the priest who will be anointed and whose hand will be filled with power to act as priest as successor of his father must make an atonement and must put on the linen garments. They are holy garments. <a id="chapter16_verse33"></a><b><sup>33 </sup></b>And he must make atonement for the holy sanctuary, and for the tent of meeting and for the altar he will make atonement; and for the priests and for all the people of the congregation he will make atonement. <a id="chapter16_verse34"></a><b><sup>34 </sup></b>And this must serve as a statute to time indefinite for <span class="smcap">YOU</span>, in order to make atonement for the sons of Israel concerning all their sins once in the year.”</p>
<p class="sb">Accordingly he did just as Jehovah had commanded Moses.</p>
</body>
</html>
