<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="application/xhtml+xml; charset=utf-8" />
<title>Numbers 34</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/bi12.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
<p class="w_biblebookname">Numbers</p><p class="sb"><a id="chapter34"></a><a id="chapter34_verse1"></a><span class="w_ch"><b>34 </b></span>And Jehovah spoke further to Moses, saying: <a id="chapter34_verse2"></a><b><sup>2 </sup></b>“Command the sons of Israel, and you must say to them, ‘Y<span class="smcap">OU </span>are going into the land of Ca′naan. This is the land that will fall to <span class="smcap">YOU </span>by inheritance, the land of Ca′naan according to its boundaries.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter34_verse3"></a><b><sup>3 </sup></b>“‘And <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>south side must prove to be from the wilderness of Zin alongside E′dom, and <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>south boundary must prove to be from the extremity of the Salt Sea on the east. <a id="chapter34_verse4"></a><b><sup>4 </sup></b>And <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>boundary must change direction from the south of the ascent of A·krab′bim and cross over to Zin, and its termination must prove to be on the south of Ka′desh-bar′ne·a; and it must go out to Ha′zar-ad′dar and pass over to Az′mon. <a id="chapter34_verse5"></a><b><sup>5 </sup></b>And the boundary must change direction at Az′mon to the torrent valley of Egypt, and its termination must prove to be at the Sea.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter34_verse6"></a><b><sup>6 </sup></b>“‘As for a west boundary, it must prove to be for <span class="smcap">YOU </span>the Great Sea and the shoreland. This will become <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>west boundary.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter34_verse7"></a><b><sup>7 </sup></b>“‘Now this will become <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>north boundary: From the Great Sea <span class="smcap">YOU </span>will mark out to Mount Hor as a boundary for yourselves. <a id="chapter34_verse8"></a><b><sup>8 </sup></b>From Mount Hor <span class="smcap">YOU </span>will mark out the boundary to the entering in of Ha′math, and the termination of the boundary must prove to be at Ze′dad. <a id="chapter34_verse9"></a><b><sup>9 </sup></b>And the boundary must go out to Ziph′ron, and its termination must prove to be Ha′zar-e′nan. This will become <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>north boundary.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter34_verse10"></a><b><sup>10 </sup></b>“‘Then <span class="smcap">YOU </span>must mark for yourselves as <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>boundary on the east from Ha′zar-e′nan to She′pham. <a id="chapter34_verse11"></a><b><sup>11 </sup></b>And the boundary must go down from She′pham to Rib′lah on the east of A′in, and the border must go down and strike upon the eastern slope of the sea of Chin′ne·reth. <a id="chapter34_verse12"></a><b><sup>12 </sup></b>And the border must go down to the Jordan, and its termination must prove to be the Salt Sea. This will become <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>land according to its boundaries all around.’”</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter34_verse13"></a><b><sup>13 </sup></b>So Moses commanded the sons of Israel, saying: “This is the land that <span class="smcap">YOU </span>will apportion to yourselves as a possession by lot, just as Jehovah has commanded to give to the nine and a half tribes. <a id="chapter34_verse14"></a><b><sup>14 </sup></b>For the tribe of the sons of the Reu′ben·ites by the house of their fathers and the tribe of the sons of the Gad′ites by the house of their fathers have already taken, and the half tribe of Ma·nas′seh have already taken their inheritance. <a id="chapter34_verse15"></a><b><sup>15 </sup></b>The two and a half tribes have already taken their inheritance from the region of the Jordan by Jer′i·cho eastward toward the sunrising.”</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter34_verse16"></a><b><sup>16 </sup></b>And Jehovah spoke further to Moses, saying: <a id="chapter34_verse17"></a><b><sup>17 </sup></b>“These are the names of the men who will divide the land to <span class="smcap">YOU </span>people for a possession, El·e·a′zar the priest and Joshua the son of Nun. <a id="chapter34_verse18"></a><b><sup>18 </sup></b>And <span class="smcap">YOU </span>will take one chieftain out of each tribe to divide the land for a possession. <a id="chapter34_verse19"></a><b><sup>19 </sup></b>And these are the names of the men: Of the tribe of Judah, Ca′leb the son of Je·phun′neh; <a id="chapter34_verse20"></a><b><sup>20 </sup></b>and of the tribe of the sons of Sim′e·on, She·mu′el the son of Am·mi′hud; <a id="chapter34_verse21"></a><b><sup>21 </sup></b>of the tribe of Benjamin, E·li′dad the son of Chis′lon; <a id="chapter34_verse22"></a><b><sup>22 </sup></b>and of the tribe of the sons of Dan a chieftain, <a id="page233"></a>Buk′ki the son of Jog′li; <a id="chapter34_verse23"></a><b><sup>23 </sup></b>of the sons of Joseph, of the tribe of the sons of Ma·nas′seh a chieftain, Han′ni·el the son of E′phod; <a id="chapter34_verse24"></a><b><sup>24 </sup></b>and of the tribe of the sons of E′phra·im a chieftain, Kem·u′el the son of Shiph′tan; <a id="chapter34_verse25"></a><b><sup>25 </sup></b>and of the tribe of the sons of Zeb′u·lun a chieftain, E·li·za′phan the son of Par′nach; <a id="chapter34_verse26"></a><b><sup>26 </sup></b>and of the tribe of the sons of Is′sa·char a chieftain, Pal′ti·el the son of Az′zan; <a id="chapter34_verse27"></a><b><sup>27 </sup></b>and of the tribe of the sons of Ash′er a chieftain, A·hi′hud the son of She·lo′mi; <a id="chapter34_verse28"></a><b><sup>28 </sup></b>and of the tribe of the sons of Naph′ta·li a chieftain, Ped·ah′el the son of Am·mi′hud.” <a id="chapter34_verse29"></a><b><sup>29 </sup></b>These are the ones whom Jehovah commanded to make the sons of Israel landholders in the land of Ca′naan.</p>
</body>
</html>
