<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="application/xhtml+xml; charset=utf-8" />
<title>Numbers 18</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/bi12.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
<p class="w_biblebookname">Numbers</p><p class="sb"><a id="chapter18"></a><a id="chapter18_verse1"></a><span class="w_ch"><b>18 </b></span>And Jehovah proceeded to say to Aaron: “You and your sons and the house of your father with you will answer for error against the sanctuary, and you and your sons with you will answer for error against <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>priesthood. <a id="chapter18_verse2"></a><b><sup>2 </sup></b>And bring near, also, your brothers of the tribe of Le′vi, the clan of your father, with you, that they may be joined to you and may minister to you, to both you and your sons with you, before the tent of the Testimony. <a id="chapter18_verse3"></a><b><sup>3 </sup></b>And they must keep their obligation to you and their obligation to the entire tent. Only to the utensils of the holy place and to the altar they must not come near that they may not die, neither they nor <span class="smcap">YOU </span>men. <a id="chapter18_verse4"></a><b><sup>4 </sup></b>And they must be joined to you and must keep their obligation to the tent of meeting as respects all the service of the tent, and no stranger may come near to <span class="smcap">YOU </span>men. <a id="chapter18_verse5"></a><b><sup>5 </sup></b>And <span class="smcap">YOU </span>must keep <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>obligation to the holy place and <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>obligation to the altar, that no further indignation may occur against the sons of Israel. <a id="chapter18_verse6"></a><b><sup>6 </sup></b>And I, look! I have taken <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>brothers, the Levites, from among the sons of Israel, as a gift for <span class="smcap">YOU</span>, as those given to Jehovah to carry on the service of the tent of meeting. <a id="chapter18_verse7"></a><b><sup>7 </sup></b>And you and your sons with you should safeguard <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>priesthood as regards every concern of the altar and as regards what is inside the curtain; and <span class="smcap">YOU </span>men must render service. As a service of gift I shall give <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>priesthood, and the stranger drawing near should be put to death.”</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter18_verse8"></a><b><sup>8 </sup></b>And Jehovah spoke further to Aaron: “As for me, look! I have given you the custody of the contributions made to me. Of all the holy things of the sons of Israel I have given them to you and to your sons as a portion, as an allowance to time indefinite. <a id="chapter18_verse9"></a><b><sup>9 </sup></b>This should become yours out of the most holy things, out of the offering made by fire, every offering of theirs together <a id="page207"></a>with every grain offering of theirs and every sin offering of theirs and every guilt offering of theirs, which they will return to me. It is something most holy for you and for your sons. <a id="chapter18_verse10"></a><b><sup>10 </sup></b>In a most holy place you should eat it. Every male should eat it. It should become something holy to you. <a id="chapter18_verse11"></a><b><sup>11 </sup></b>And this belongs to you: the contribution of their gift together with all the wave offerings of the sons of Israel. I have given them to you and your sons and your daughters with you, as an allowance to time indefinite. Everyone clean in your house may eat it.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter18_verse12"></a><b><sup>12 </sup></b>“All the best of the oil and all the best of the new wine and the grain, their firstfruits, which they will give to Jehovah, I have given them to you. <a id="chapter18_verse13"></a><b><sup>13 </sup></b>The first ripe fruits of all that is on their land, which they will bring to Jehovah, yours it should become. Everyone clean in your house may eat it.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter18_verse14"></a><b><sup>14 </sup></b>“Every devoted thing in Israel should become yours.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter18_verse15"></a><b><sup>15 </sup></b>“Everything opening the womb, of every sort of flesh, which they will present to Jehovah, among man and among beast, should become yours. However, you should without fail redeem the firstborn of mankind; and the firstborn of the unclean beast you should redeem. <a id="chapter18_verse16"></a><b><sup>16 </sup></b>And with a redemption price for it from a month old onward you should redeem it, by the estimated value, five silver shekels by the shekel of the holy place. It is twenty ge′rahs. <a id="chapter18_verse17"></a><b><sup>17 </sup></b>Only the firstborn bull or firstborn male lamb or firstborn goat you should not redeem. They are something holy. Their blood you should sprinkle upon the altar, and their fat you should make smoke as an offering made by fire for a restful odor to Jehovah. <a id="chapter18_verse18"></a><b><sup>18 </sup></b>And their flesh should become yours. Like the breast of the wave offering and like the right leg, it should become yours. <a id="chapter18_verse19"></a><b><sup>19 </sup></b>All the holy contributions, which the sons of Israel will contribute to Jehovah, I have given to you and your sons and your daughters with you, as an allowance to time indefinite. It is a covenant of salt to time indefinite before Jehovah for you and your offspring with you.”</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter18_verse20"></a><b><sup>20 </sup></b>And Jehovah went on to say to Aaron: “In their land you will not have an inheritance, and no share will become yours in their midst. I am your share and your inheritance in the midst of the sons of Israel.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter18_verse21"></a><b><sup>21 </sup></b>“And to the sons of Le′vi, look! I have given every tenth part in Israel as an inheritance in return for their service that they are carrying on, the service of the tent of meeting. <a id="chapter18_verse22"></a><b><sup>22 </sup></b>And the sons of Israel should no more come near to the tent of meeting to incur sin so as to die. <a id="chapter18_verse23"></a><b><sup>23 </sup></b>And the Levites themselves must carry on the service of the tent of meeting, and they are the ones who should answer for their error. It is a statute to time indefinite during <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>generations that in the midst of the sons of Israel they should not get possession of an inheritance. <a id="chapter18_verse24"></a><b><sup>24 </sup></b>For the tenth part of the sons of Israel, which they will contribute to Jehovah as a contribution, I have given to the Levites as an inheritance. That is why I have said to them, ‘In the midst of the sons of Israel they should not get possession of an inheritance.’”</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter18_verse25"></a><b><sup>25 </sup></b>Then Jehovah spoke to Moses, saying: <a id="chapter18_verse26"></a><b><sup>26 </sup></b>“And you should speak to the Levites, and you must say to them, ‘Y<span class="smcap">OU </span>will receive from the sons of Israel the tenth part that I have given to <span class="smcap">YOU </span>from them for <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>inheritance, and <span class="smcap">YOU </span>must contribute from it as a contribution to <a id="page208"></a>Jehovah a tenth part of the tenth part. <a id="chapter18_verse27"></a><b><sup>27 </sup></b>And it must be reckoned to <span class="smcap">YOU </span>as <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>contribution, like the grain of the threshing floor and like the full produce of the wine or oil press. <a id="chapter18_verse28"></a><b><sup>28 </sup></b>In this way <span class="smcap">YOU </span>yourselves also will contribute a contribution to Jehovah from all <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>tenth parts that <span class="smcap">YOU </span>will receive from the sons of Israel, and from them <span class="smcap">YOU </span>must give the contribution to Jehovah to Aaron the priest. <a id="chapter18_verse29"></a><b><sup>29 </sup></b>From all the gifts to <span class="smcap">YOU</span>, <span class="smcap">YOU </span>will contribute every sort of contribution to Jehovah, of the very best of it, as some holy thing from them.’</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter18_verse30"></a><b><sup>30 </sup></b>“And you must say to them, ‘When <span class="smcap">YOU </span>contribute the best of them, then it will certainly be reckoned to the Levites as the produce of the threshing floor and as the produce of the wine or oil press. <a id="chapter18_verse31"></a><b><sup>31 </sup></b>And <span class="smcap">YOU </span>must eat it in every place, <span class="smcap">YOU </span>and <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>household, because it is <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>wages in return for <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>service in the tent of meeting. <a id="chapter18_verse32"></a><b><sup>32 </sup></b>And <span class="smcap">YOU </span>must not incur sin for it when <span class="smcap">YOU </span>contribute the best from them, and <span class="smcap">YOU </span>must not profane the holy things of the sons of Israel, that <span class="smcap">YOU </span>may not die.’”</p>
</body>
</html>
