<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="application/xhtml+xml; charset=utf-8" />
<title>Numbers 13</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/bi12.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
<p class="w_biblebookname">Numbers</p><p class="sb"><a id="chapter13"></a><a id="chapter13_verse1"></a><span class="w_ch"><b>13 </b></span>Jehovah now spoke to Moses, saying: <a id="chapter13_verse2"></a><b><sup>2 </sup></b>“Send out for yourself men that they may spy out the land of Ca′naan, which I am giving to the sons of Israel. Y<span class="smcap">OU </span>will send out one man for each tribe of his fathers, each one a chieftain among them.”</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter13_verse3"></a><b><sup>3 </sup></b>So Moses sent them out from the wilderness of Pa′ran at the order of Jehovah. All the men were heads of the sons of Israel. <a id="chapter13_verse4"></a><b><sup>4 </sup></b>And these are their names: Of the tribe of Reu′ben, Sham·mu′a the son of Zac′cur; <a id="chapter13_verse5"></a><b><sup>5 </sup></b>of the tribe of Sim′e·on, Sha′phat the son of Ho′ri; <a id="chapter13_verse6"></a><b><sup>6 </sup></b>of the tribe of Judah, Ca′leb the son of Je·phun′neh; <a id="chapter13_verse7"></a><b><sup>7 </sup></b>of the tribe of Is′sa·char, I′gal the son of Joseph; <a id="chapter13_verse8"></a><b><sup>8 </sup></b>of the tribe of E′phra·im, Ho·she′a the son of Nun; <a id="chapter13_verse9"></a><b><sup>9 </sup></b>of the tribe of Benjamin, Pal′ti the son of Ra′phu; <a id="chapter13_verse10"></a><b><sup>10 </sup></b>of the tribe of Zeb′u·lun, Gad′di·el the son of So′di; <a id="chapter13_verse11"></a><b><sup>11 </sup></b>of the tribe of Joseph, for the tribe of Ma·nas′seh, Gad′di the son of Su′si; <a id="chapter13_verse12"></a><b><sup>12 </sup></b>of the tribe of Dan, Am′mi·el the son of Ge·mal′li; <a id="chapter13_verse13"></a><b><sup>13 </sup></b>of the tribe of Ash′er, Se′thur the son of Mi′cha·el; <a id="chapter13_verse14"></a><b><sup>14 </sup></b>of the tribe of Naph′ta·li, Nah′bi the son of Voph′si; <a id="chapter13_verse15"></a><b><sup>15 </sup></b>of the tribe of Gad, Geu′el the son of Ma′chi. <a id="chapter13_verse16"></a><b><sup>16 </sup></b>These are the names of the men whom Moses sent to spy out the land. And Moses continued to call Ho·she′a the son of Nun Je·hosh′u·a.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter13_verse17"></a><b><sup>17 </sup></b>When Moses was sending them to spy out the land of Ca′naan, he proceeded to say to them: “Go up here into the Neg′eb, and <span class="smcap">YOU </span>must go up into the mountainous region. <a id="chapter13_verse18"></a><b><sup>18 </sup></b>And <span class="smcap">YOU </span>must see what the land is and the people who are dwelling on it, whether they are strong or weak, whether they are few or many; <a id="chapter13_verse19"></a><b><sup>19 </sup></b>and what the land is in which they are dwelling, whether it is good or bad, and what the cities are in which they are dwelling, whether it is in encampments or in fortifications; <a id="chapter13_verse20"></a><b><sup>20 </sup></b>and what the land is, whether it is fat or lean, whether there are trees in it or not. And <span class="smcap">YOU </span>must show yourselves courageous and take some of the fruitage of the land.” Now the days were the days of the first ripe fruits of the grapes.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter13_verse21"></a><b><sup>21 </sup></b>So they went up and spied out the land from the wilderness of Zin to Re′hob to the entering in of Ha′math. <a id="chapter13_verse22"></a><b><sup>22 </sup></b>When they went up into the Neg′eb, they then came to He′bron. Now A·hi′man, She′shai and Tal′mai, those born of A′nak, were there. Incidentally, He′bron had been built seven years before Zo′an of Egypt. <a id="chapter13_verse23"></a><b><sup>23 </sup></b>When they came to the torrent valley of Esh′col, they then proceeded to cut down from there a shoot with one cluster of grapes. And they went carrying it with a bar on two of the men, and also some of the pomegranates and some of the figs. <a id="chapter13_verse24"></a><b><sup>24 </sup></b>They called that place the torrent valley of Esh′col, on account of the cluster that the sons of Israel cut down from there.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter13_verse25"></a><b><sup>25 </sup></b>Finally at the end of forty days they returned from spying out the land. <a id="chapter13_verse26"></a><b><sup>26 </sup></b>So they <a id="page199"></a>walked and came to Moses and Aaron and all the assembly of the sons of Israel in the wilderness of Pa′ran, at Ka′desh. And they came bringing back word to them and all the assembly and showing them the fruitage of the land. <a id="chapter13_verse27"></a><b><sup>27 </sup></b>And they went on to report to him and say: “We entered into the land to which you sent us out, and it is indeed flowing with milk and honey, and this is its fruitage. <a id="chapter13_verse28"></a><b><sup>28 </sup></b>Nevertheless, the facts are that the people who dwell in the land are strong, and the fortified cities are very great; and, too, those born of A′nak we saw there. <a id="chapter13_verse29"></a><b><sup>29 </sup></b>The A·mal′ek·ites are dwelling in the land of the Neg′eb, and the Hit′tites and the Jeb′u·sites and the Am′or·ites are dwelling in the mountainous region, and the Ca′naan·ites are dwelling by the sea and by the side of the Jordan.”</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter13_verse30"></a><b><sup>30 </sup></b>Then Ca′leb tried to still the people toward Moses and went on to say: “Let us go up directly, and we are bound to take possession of it, because we can surely prevail over it.” <a id="chapter13_verse31"></a><b><sup>31 </sup></b>But the men who went up with him said: “We are not able to go up against the people, because they are stronger than we are.” <a id="chapter13_verse32"></a><b><sup>32 </sup></b>And they kept on bringing forth to the sons of Israel a bad report of the land that they had spied out, saying: “The land, which we passed through to spy it out, is a land that eats up its inhabitants; and all the people whom we saw in the midst of it are men of extraordinary size. <a id="chapter13_verse33"></a><b><sup>33 </sup></b>And there we saw the Neph′i·lim, the sons of A′nak, who are from the Neph′i·lim; so that we became in our own eyes like grasshoppers, and the same way we became in their eyes.”</p>
</body>
</html>
