<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="application/xhtml+xml; charset=utf-8" />
<title>Numbers 24</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/bi12.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
<p class="w_biblebookname">Numbers</p><p class="sb"><a id="chapter24"></a><a id="chapter24_verse1"></a><span class="w_ch"><b>24 </b></span>When Ba′laam got to see that it was good in the eyes of Jehovah to bless Israel, he did not go away as at the other times to come upon any unlucky omens, but he directed his face to the wilderness. <a id="chapter24_verse2"></a><b><sup>2 </sup></b>When Ba′laam raised his eyes and saw Israel tabernacling by his tribes, then the spirit of God came to be upon him. <a id="chapter24_verse3"></a><b><sup>3 </sup></b>Hence he took up his proverbial utterance and said:</p>
<p class="sp">“The utterance of Ba′laam the son of Be′or,</p>
<p class="sz">And the utterance of the able-bodied man with the eye unsealed,</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter24_verse4"></a> <b><sup>4 </sup></b>The utterance of the one hearing the sayings of God,</p>
<p class="sz">Who got to see a vision of the Almighty</p>
<p class="sz">While falling down with the eyes uncovered:</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter24_verse5"></a> <b><sup>5 </sup></b>How good-looking are your tents, O Jacob, your tabernacles, O Israel!</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter24_verse6"></a> <b><sup>6 </sup></b>Like torrent valleys they have extended a long way,</p>
<p class="sz">Like gardens by the river.</p>
<p class="sp">Like aloe plants that Jehovah has planted,</p>
<p class="sz">Like cedars by the waters.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter24_verse7"></a> <b><sup>7 </sup></b>Water keeps trickling from his two leather buckets,</p>
<p class="sz">And his seed is by many waters.</p>
<p class="sp">His king also will be higher than A′gag,</p>
<p class="sz">And his kingdom will be lifted up.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter24_verse8"></a> <b><sup>8 </sup></b>God is bringing him out of Egypt;</p>
<p class="sz">The swift course of a wild bull is his.</p>
<p class="sp">He will consume the nations, his oppressors,</p>
<p class="sz">And their bones he will gnaw, and he will break them to pieces with his arrows.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter24_verse9"></a> <b><sup>9 </sup></b>He bowed down, he lay down like the lion,</p>
<p class="sz">And, like a lion, who dares rouse him?</p>
<p class="sp">Those blessing you are the ones blessed,</p>
<p class="sz">And those cursing you are the ones cursed.”</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter24_verse10"></a><b><sup>10 </sup></b>At that Ba′lak’s anger blazed against Ba′laam and he clapped his hands, and Ba′lak went on to say to Ba′laam: “It was to execrate my enemies that I called you, and, look! you have blessed them to the limit these three times. <a id="chapter24_verse11"></a><b><sup>11 </sup></b>And now run your way off to your place. I had said to myself I was without fail going to honor you, but, look! Jehovah has held you back from honor.”</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter24_verse12"></a><b><sup>12 </sup></b>In turn Ba′laam said to Ba′lak: “Was it not also to your messengers whom you sent to me that I spoke, saying, <a id="chapter24_verse13"></a><b><sup>13 </sup></b>‘If Ba′lak were to give me his house full of silver and gold, I should not be able to pass beyond the order of Jehovah so as to do something good or bad out of my own heart. Whatever Jehovah may speak is what I shall speak’? <a id="chapter24_verse14"></a><b><sup>14 </sup></b>And now here I am <a id="page217"></a>going away to my people. Do come, let me advise you what this people will do to your people afterward in the end of the days.” <a id="chapter24_verse15"></a><b><sup>15 </sup></b>So he took up his proverbial utterance and said:</p>
<p class="sp">“The utterance of Ba′laam the son of Be′or,</p>
<p class="sz">And the utterance of the able-bodied man with the eye unsealed,</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter24_verse16"></a><b><sup>16 </sup></b>The utterance of the one hearing the sayings of God,</p>
<p class="sz">And the one knowing the knowledge of the Most High—</p>
<p class="sp">A vision of the Almighty he got to see</p>
<p class="sz">While falling down with the eyes uncovered:</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter24_verse17"></a><b><sup>17 </sup></b>I shall see him, but not now;</p>
<p class="sz">I shall behold him, but not near.</p>
<p class="sp">A star will certainly step forth out of Jacob,</p>
<p class="sz">And a scepter will indeed rise out of Israel.</p>
<p class="sp">And he will certainly break apart the temples of Mo′ab’s head</p>
<p class="sz">And the cranium of all the sons of tumult of war.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter24_verse18"></a><b><sup>18 </sup></b>And E′dom must become a possession,</p>
<p class="sz">Yes, Se′ir must become the possession of his enemies,</p>
<p class="sz">While Israel is displaying his courage.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter24_verse19"></a><b><sup>19 </sup></b>And out of Jacob one will go subduing,</p>
<p class="sz">And he must destroy any survivor from the city.”</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter24_verse20"></a><b><sup>20 </sup></b>When he got to see Am′a·lek, he carried further his proverbial utterance and went on to say:</p>
<p class="sp">“Am′a·lek was the first one of the nations,</p>
<p class="sp">But his end afterward will be even his perishing.”</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter24_verse21"></a><b><sup>21 </sup></b>When he got to see the Ken′ites, he carried further his proverbial utterance and went on to say:</p>
<p class="sp">“Durable is your dwelling, and set on the crag is your abode.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter24_verse22"></a><b><sup>22 </sup></b>But there will come to be one to burn Ka′in down.</p>
<p class="sz">How long will it be till As·syr′i·a will carry you away captive?”</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter24_verse23"></a><b><sup>23 </sup></b>And he carried further his proverbial utterance and went on to say:</p>
<p class="sp">“Woe! Who will survive when God causes it?</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter24_verse24"></a><b><sup>24 </sup></b>And there will be ships from the coast of Kit′tim,</p>
<p class="sz">And they will certainly afflict As·syr′i·a,</p>
<p class="sp">And they will indeed afflict E′ber.</p>
<p class="sz">But he too will eventually perish.”</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter24_verse25"></a><b><sup>25 </sup></b>After that Ba′laam got up and went and returned to his place. And Ba′lak also went his own way.</p>
</body>
</html>
