<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="application/xhtml+xml; charset=utf-8" />
<title>Numbers 32</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/bi12.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
<p class="w_biblebookname">Numbers</p><p class="sb"><a id="chapter32"></a><a id="chapter32_verse1"></a><span class="w_ch"><b>32 </b></span>Now the sons of Reu′ben and the sons of Gad had come to have numerous livestock, very many, in fact. And they began to see the land of Ja′zer and the land of Gil′e·ad, and, look! the place was a place for livestock. <a id="chapter32_verse2"></a><b><sup>2 </sup></b>Hence the sons of Gad and the sons of Reu′ben came and said this to Moses and El·e·a′zar the priest and to the chieftains of the assembly: <a id="chapter32_verse3"></a><b><sup>3 </sup></b>“At′a·roth and Di′bon and Ja′zer and Nim′rah and Hesh′bon and E·le·a′leh and Se′bam and Ne′bo and Be′on, <a id="chapter32_verse4"></a><b><sup>4 </sup></b>the land that Jehovah defeated before the assembly of Israel, is a land for livestock, and your servants have livestock.” <a id="chapter32_verse5"></a><b><sup>5 </sup></b>And they went on to say: “If we have found favor in your eyes, let this land be given to your servants as a possession. Do not make us cross the Jordan.”</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter32_verse6"></a><b><sup>6 </sup></b>Then Moses said to the sons of Gad and the sons of Reu′ben: “Are <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>brothers to go to war while <span class="smcap">YOU </span>yourselves keep dwelling here? <a id="chapter32_verse7"></a><b><sup>7 </sup></b>And why should <span class="smcap">YOU </span>dishearten the sons of Israel from crossing into the land that Jehovah will certainly give them? <a id="chapter32_verse8"></a><b><sup>8 </sup></b>That is the way <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>fathers did when I sent them from Ka′desh-bar′ne·a to see the land. <a id="chapter32_verse9"></a><b><sup>9 </sup></b>When they went up to the torrent valley of Esh′col and saw the land, then they disheartened the sons of Israel, so as not to go into the land that Jehovah was certain to give them. <a id="chapter32_verse10"></a><b><sup>10 </sup></b>Consequently Jehovah’s anger blazed on that day so that he swore, saying, <a id="chapter32_verse11"></a><b><sup>11 </sup></b>‘The men who came up out of Egypt from twenty years old upward will not see the soil of which I have sworn to Abraham, Isaac and Jacob, because they have not followed me wholly, <a id="chapter32_verse12"></a><b><sup>12 </sup></b>except Ca′leb the son of Je·phun′neh the Ken′iz·zite and Joshua the son of Nun, because they have followed Jehovah wholly.’ <a id="chapter32_verse13"></a><b><sup>13 </sup></b>So Jehovah’s anger blazed against Israel and he made them wander about in the wilderness forty years, until all the generation that was doing evil in the eyes of Jehovah came to their end. <a id="chapter32_verse14"></a><b><sup>14 </sup></b>And here <span class="smcap">YOU </span>have risen in the place of <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>fathers as the brood of sinful men in order to add further to the burning anger of Jehovah against Israel. <a id="chapter32_verse15"></a><b><sup>15 </sup></b>In case <span class="smcap">YOU </span>should turn back from following him, he also would certainly once again let them stay longer in the wilderness, and <span class="smcap">YOU </span>would have acted ruinously toward all this people.”</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter32_verse16"></a><b><sup>16 </sup></b>Later they approached him and said: “Let us build here stone flock pens for our livestock and cities for our little ones. <a id="chapter32_verse17"></a><b><sup>17 </sup></b>But we ourselves shall go equipped <a id="page229"></a>in battle formation before the sons of Israel until whenever we have brought them to their place, while our little ones must dwell in the cities with fortifications away from the face of the inhabitants of the land. <a id="chapter32_verse18"></a><b><sup>18 </sup></b>We shall not return to our houses until the sons of Israel have provided themselves with landed property, each with his own inheritance. <a id="chapter32_verse19"></a><b><sup>19 </sup></b>For we shall not get an inheritance with them from the side of the Jordan and beyond, because our inheritance has come to us from the side of the Jordan toward the sunrising.”</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter32_verse20"></a><b><sup>20 </sup></b>At this Moses said to them: “If <span class="smcap">YOU </span>will do this thing, if <span class="smcap">YOU </span>will equip yourselves before Jehovah for the war, <a id="chapter32_verse21"></a><b><sup>21 </sup></b>and every equipped one of <span class="smcap">YOURS </span>will actually pass over the Jordan before Jehovah, until he drives away his enemies from before him, <a id="chapter32_verse22"></a><b><sup>22 </sup></b>and the land is actually subdued before Jehovah, and afterward <span class="smcap">YOU </span>return, <span class="smcap">YOU </span>also will indeed prove yourselves free from guilt against Jehovah and against Israel; and this land must become <span class="smcap">YOURS </span>as a possession before Jehovah. <a id="chapter32_verse23"></a><b><sup>23 </sup></b>But if <span class="smcap">YOU </span>will not do this way, <span class="smcap">YOU </span>will also certainly sin against Jehovah. In that case know that <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>sin will catch up with <span class="smcap">YOU</span>. <a id="chapter32_verse24"></a><b><sup>24 </sup></b>Build for yourselves cities for <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>little ones and stone pens for <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>flocks, and what has gone forth from <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>mouth <span class="smcap">YOU </span>should do.”</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter32_verse25"></a><b><sup>25 </sup></b>Then the sons of Gad and the sons of Reu′ben said this to Moses: “Your servants will do just as my lord is commanding. <a id="chapter32_verse26"></a><b><sup>26 </sup></b>Our little ones, our wives, our livestock and all our domestic animals will stay there in the cities of Gil′e·ad, <a id="chapter32_verse27"></a><b><sup>27 </sup></b>but your servants will pass over, everyone equipped for the army, before Jehovah for the war, just as my lord is speaking.”</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter32_verse28"></a><b><sup>28 </sup></b>Accordingly Moses gave a command respecting them to El·e·a′zar the priest and to Joshua the son of Nun and to the heads of the fathers of the tribes of the sons of Israel. <a id="chapter32_verse29"></a><b><sup>29 </sup></b>So Moses said to them: “If the sons of Gad and the sons of Reu′ben pass with <span class="smcap">YOU </span>over the Jordan, everyone equipped for the war, before Jehovah, and the land is actually subdued before <span class="smcap">YOU</span>, <span class="smcap">YOU </span>must then give them the land of Gil′e·ad as a possession. <a id="chapter32_verse30"></a><b><sup>30 </sup></b>But if they do not pass over equipped with <span class="smcap">YOU</span>, they must then be settled in <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>midst in the land of Ca′naan.”</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter32_verse31"></a><b><sup>31 </sup></b>To this the sons of Gad and the sons of Reu′ben answered, saying: “What Jehovah has spoken to your servants is the way we shall do. <a id="chapter32_verse32"></a><b><sup>32 </sup></b>We ourselves will pass over equipped before Jehovah to the land of Ca′naan, and the possession of our inheritance will be with us on this side of the Jordan.” <a id="chapter32_verse33"></a><b><sup>33 </sup></b>At this Moses gave to them, that is, to the sons of Gad and to the sons of Reu′ben and to half the tribe of Ma·nas′seh the son of Joseph, the kingdom of Si′hon the king of the Am′or·ites and the kingdom of Og the king of Ba′shan, the land belonging to its cities in the territories, and the cities of the land round about.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter32_verse34"></a><b><sup>34 </sup></b>And the sons of Gad proceeded to build Di′bon and At′a·roth and A·ro′er, <a id="chapter32_verse35"></a><b><sup>35 </sup></b>and At′roth-sho′phan and Ja′zer and Jog′be·hah, <a id="chapter32_verse36"></a><b><sup>36 </sup></b>and Beth-nim′rah and Beth-ha′ran, cities with fortifications, and stone flock pens. <a id="chapter32_verse37"></a><b><sup>37 </sup></b>And the sons of Reu′ben built Hesh′bon and E·le·a′leh and Kir·i·a·tha′im, <a id="chapter32_verse38"></a><b><sup>38 </sup></b>and Ne′bo and Ba′al-me′on—their names being changed—and Sib′mah; and they began to call by their own names the names of the cities that they built.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="page230"></a><a id="chapter32_verse39"></a><b><sup>39 </sup></b>And the sons of Ma′chir the son of Ma·nas′seh proceeded to march to Gil′e·ad and to capture it and to drive away the Am′or·ites who were in it. <a id="chapter32_verse40"></a><b><sup>40 </sup></b>So Moses gave Gil′e·ad to Ma′chir the son of Ma·nas′seh, and he took up dwelling in it. <a id="chapter32_verse41"></a><b><sup>41 </sup></b>And Ja′ir the son of Ma·nas′seh marched and went capturing their tent villages, and he began to call them Hav′voth-ja′ir. <a id="chapter32_verse42"></a><b><sup>42 </sup></b>And No′bah marched and went capturing Ke′nath and its dependent towns; and he began to call it No′bah by his own name.</p>
</body>
</html>
