<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="application/xhtml+xml; charset=utf-8" />
<title>Numbers 2</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/bi12.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
<p class="w_biblebookname">Numbers</p><p class="sb"><a id="chapter2"></a><a id="chapter2_verse1"></a><span class="w_ch"><b>2 </b></span>Jehovah now spoke to Moses and Aaron, saying: <a id="chapter2_verse2"></a><b><sup>2 </sup></b>“The sons of Israel should encamp, each man by his three-tribe division, by the signs for the house of their fathers. Round about in front of the tent of meeting they should encamp.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter2_verse3"></a><b><sup>3 </sup></b>“And those camping eastward toward the sunrising will be the three-tribe division of the camp of Judah in their armies, and the chieftain for the sons of Judah is Nah′shon the son of Am·min′a·dab. <a id="chapter2_verse4"></a><b><sup>4 </sup></b>And his army and the ones registered of them are seventy-four thousand six hundred. <a id="chapter2_verse5"></a><b><sup>5 </sup></b>And those camping alongside him will be the tribe of Is′sa·char, and the chieftain for the sons of Is′sa·char is Ne·than′el the son of <a id="page180"></a>Zu′ar. <a id="chapter2_verse6"></a><b><sup>6 </sup></b>And his army and his registered ones are fifty-four thousand four hundred. <a id="chapter2_verse7"></a><b><sup>7 </sup></b>And the tribe of Zeb′u·lun; and the chieftain for the sons of Zeb′u·lun is E·li′ab the son of He′lon. <a id="chapter2_verse8"></a><b><sup>8 </sup></b>And his army and his registered ones are fifty-seven thousand four hundred.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter2_verse9"></a><b><sup>9 </sup></b>“All the registered ones of the camp of Judah are one hundred eighty-six thousand four hundred in their armies. They should set out first.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter2_verse10"></a><b><sup>10 </sup></b>“The three-tribe division of the camp of Reu′ben will be toward the south in their armies, and the chieftain for the sons of Reu′ben is E·li′zur the son of Shed′e·ur. <a id="chapter2_verse11"></a><b><sup>11 </sup></b>And his army and his registered ones are forty-six thousand five hundred. <a id="chapter2_verse12"></a><b><sup>12 </sup></b>And those camping alongside him will be the tribe of Sim′e·on, and the chieftain for the sons of Sim′e·on is She·lu′mi·el the son of Zu·ri·shad′dai. <a id="chapter2_verse13"></a><b><sup>13 </sup></b>And his army and the ones registered of them are fifty-nine thousand three hundred. <a id="chapter2_verse14"></a><b><sup>14 </sup></b>And the tribe of Gad; and the chieftain for the sons of Gad is E·li′a·saph the son of Reu′el. <a id="chapter2_verse15"></a><b><sup>15 </sup></b>And his army and the ones registered of them are forty-five thousand six hundred and fifty.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter2_verse16"></a><b><sup>16 </sup></b>“All the registered ones of the camp of Reu′ben are one hundred and fifty-one thousand four hundred and fifty in their armies, and they should set out second.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter2_verse17"></a><b><sup>17 </sup></b>“When the tent of meeting must set out, the camp of the Levites will be in the middle of the camps.</p>
<p class="sb">“Just as they should encamp, so they should set out, each one at his place, according to their three-tribe divisions.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter2_verse18"></a><b><sup>18 </sup></b>“The three-tribe division of the camp of E′phra·im in their armies will be toward the west, and the chieftain for the sons of E′phra·im is E·lish′a·ma the son of Am·mi′hud. <a id="chapter2_verse19"></a><b><sup>19 </sup></b>And his army and the ones registered of them are forty thousand five hundred. <a id="chapter2_verse20"></a><b><sup>20 </sup></b>And alongside him will be the tribe of Ma·nas′seh, and the chieftain for the sons of Ma·nas′seh is Ga·ma′li·el the son of Pe·dah′zur. <a id="chapter2_verse21"></a><b><sup>21 </sup></b>And his army and the ones registered of them are thirty-two thousand two hundred. <a id="chapter2_verse22"></a><b><sup>22 </sup></b>And the tribe of Benjamin; and the chieftain for the sons of Benjamin is Ab′i·dan the son of Gid·e·o′ni. <a id="chapter2_verse23"></a><b><sup>23 </sup></b>And his army and the ones registered of them are thirty-five thousand four hundred.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter2_verse24"></a><b><sup>24 </sup></b>“All the registered ones of the camp of E′phra·im are one hundred and eight thousand one hundred in their armies, and they should set out third.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter2_verse25"></a><b><sup>25 </sup></b>“The three-tribe division of the camp of Dan will be toward the north in their armies, and the chieftain for the sons of Dan is A·hi·e′zer the son of Am·mi·shad′dai. <a id="chapter2_verse26"></a><b><sup>26 </sup></b>And his army and the ones registered of them are sixty-two thousand seven hundred. <a id="chapter2_verse27"></a><b><sup>27 </sup></b>And the ones camping alongside him will be the tribe of Ash′er, and the chieftain for the sons of Ash′er is Pa′gi·el the son of Och′ran. <a id="chapter2_verse28"></a><b><sup>28 </sup></b>And his army and the ones registered of them are forty-one thousand five hundred. <a id="chapter2_verse29"></a><b><sup>29 </sup></b>And the tribe of Naph′ta·li; and the chieftain for the sons of Naph′ta·li is A·hi′ra the son of E′nan. <a id="chapter2_verse30"></a><b><sup>30 </sup></b>And his army and the ones registered of them are fifty-three thousand four hundred.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter2_verse31"></a><b><sup>31 </sup></b>“All the registered ones of the camp of Dan are one hundred fifty-seven thousand six hundred. They should set out last—according to their three-tribe divisions.”</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter2_verse32"></a><b><sup>32 </sup></b>These were the registered ones of the sons of Israel according to the house of their fathers; all the registered ones of the camps in their armies were six <a id="page181"></a>hundred and three thousand five hundred and fifty. <a id="chapter2_verse33"></a><b><sup>33 </sup></b>But the Levites did not get registered in among the sons of Israel, just as Jehovah had commanded Moses. <a id="chapter2_verse34"></a><b><sup>34 </sup></b>And the sons of Israel proceeded to do according to all that Jehovah had commanded Moses. That is the way they encamped in their three-tribe divisions, and that is the way they set out, each one in his families with regard to the house of his fathers.</p>
</body>
</html>
