<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="application/xhtml+xml; charset=utf-8" />
<title>Deuteronomy 33</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/bi12.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
<p class="w_biblebookname">Deuteronomy</p><p class="sb"><a id="chapter33"></a><a id="chapter33_verse1"></a><span class="w_ch"><b>33 </b></span>Now this is the blessing with which Moses the man of the true God blessed the sons of Israel before his death. <a id="chapter33_verse2"></a><b><sup>2 </sup></b>And he proceeded to say:</p>
<p class="sp">“Jehovah—from Si′nai he came,</p>
<p class="sz">And he flashed forth from Se′ir upon them.</p>
<p class="sz">He beamed forth from the mountainous region of Pa′ran,</p>
<p class="sp">And with him were holy myriads,</p>
<p class="sz">At his right hand warriors belonging to them.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter33_verse3"></a> <b><sup>3 </sup></b>He was also cherishing his people;</p>
<p class="sz">All their holy ones are in your hand.</p>
<p class="sp">And they—they reclined at your feet;</p>
<p class="sz">They began to receive some of your words.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter33_verse4"></a> <b><sup>4 </sup></b>(Moses laid as a command upon us a law,</p>
<p class="sz">A possession of the congregation of Jacob.)</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter33_verse5"></a> <b><sup>5 </sup></b>And he came to be king in Jesh′u·run,</p>
<p class="sz">When the heads of the people gathered themselves,</p>
<p class="sz">The entire number of the tribes of Israel.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter33_verse6"></a> <b><sup>6 </sup></b>Let Reu′ben live and not die off,</p>
<p class="sz">And let his men not become few.”</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter33_verse7"></a><b><sup>7 </sup></b>And this was Judah’s blessing, as he went on to say:</p>
<p class="sp"><a id="page285"></a>“Hear, O Jehovah, the voice of Judah,</p>
<p class="sz">And may you bring him to his people.</p>
<p class="sp">His arms have contended for what is his;</p>
<p class="sz">And may you prove yourself a helper from his adversaries.”</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter33_verse8"></a><b><sup>8 </sup></b>And as to Le′vi he said:</p>
<p class="sp">“Your Thum′mim and your U′rim belong to the man loyal to you,</p>
<p class="sz">Whom you put to the test at Mas′sah.</p>
<p class="sz">You began to contend with him by the waters of Mer′i·bah,</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter33_verse9"></a> <b><sup>9 </sup></b>The man who said to his father and his mother, ‘I have not seen him.’</p>
<p class="sz">Even his brothers he did not acknowledge,</p>
<p class="sz">And his sons he did not know.</p>
<p class="sp">For they kept your saying,</p>
<p class="sz">And your covenant they continued to observe.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter33_verse10"></a><b><sup>10 </sup></b>Let them instruct Jacob in your judicial decisions</p>
<p class="sz">And Israel in your law.</p>
<p class="sp">Let them render up incense before your nostrils</p>
<p class="sz">And a whole offering on your altar.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter33_verse11"></a><b><sup>11 </sup></b>Bless, O Jehovah, his vital energy,</p>
<p class="sz">And may you show pleasure in the activity of his hands.</p>
<p class="sp">Wound severely in their hips those who rise up against him,</p>
<p class="sz">And those who intensely hate him, that they may not rise up.”</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter33_verse12"></a><b><sup>12 </sup></b>As to Benjamin he said:</p>
<p class="sp">“Let the beloved one of Jehovah reside in security by him,</p>
<p class="sz">While he shelters him the whole day,</p>
<p class="sz">And he must reside between his shoulders.”</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter33_verse13"></a><b><sup>13 </sup></b>And as to Joseph he said:</p>
<p class="sp">“May his land be continually blessed from Jehovah</p>
<p class="sz">With the choice things of heaven, with dew,</p>
<p class="sz">And with the watery deep lying down below,</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter33_verse14"></a><b><sup>14 </sup></b>And with the choice things, the products of the sun,</p>
<p class="sz">And with the choice things, the yield of the lunar months,</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter33_verse15"></a><b><sup>15 </sup></b>And with the choicest from the mountains of the east,</p>
<p class="sz">And with the choice things of the indefinitely lasting hills,</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter33_verse16"></a><b><sup>16 </sup></b>And with the choice things of the earth and its fullness,</p>
<p class="sz">And with the approval of the One residing in the thornbush.</p>
<p class="sp">May they come upon the head of Joseph</p>
<p class="sz">And upon the crown of the head of the one singled out from his brothers.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter33_verse17"></a><b><sup>17 </sup></b>As the firstborn of a bull his splendor is,</p>
<p class="sz">And his horns are the horns of a wild bull.</p>
<p class="sp">With them he will push peoples</p>
<p class="sz">All together to the ends of the earth,</p>
<p class="sp">And they are the tens of thousands of E′phra·im,</p>
<p class="sz">And they are the thousands of Ma·nas′seh.”</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter33_verse18"></a><b><sup>18 </sup></b>And as to Zeb′u·lun he said:</p>
<p class="sp">“Rejoice, O Zeb′u·lun, in your going out,</p>
<p class="sz">And, Is′sa·char, in your tents.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter33_verse19"></a><b><sup>19 </sup></b>Peoples to the mountain they will call.</p>
<p class="sz">There they will sacrifice the sacrifices of righteousness.</p>
<p class="sp">For they will suck the abounding wealth of the seas</p>
<p class="sz"><a id="page286"></a>And the hidden hoards of the sand.”</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter33_verse20"></a><b><sup>20 </sup></b>And as to Gad he said:</p>
<p class="sp">“Blessed is the one widening the borders of Gad.</p>
<p class="sz">As a lion he must reside,</p>
<p class="sz">And he must tear the arm, yes, the crown of the head.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter33_verse21"></a><b><sup>21 </sup></b>And he will pick out the first part for himself,</p>
<p class="sz">For there the allotment of a statute-giver is reserved.</p>
<p class="sz">And the heads of the people will gather themselves together.</p>
<p class="sp">The righteousness of Jehovah will he certainly execute</p>
<p class="sz">And his judicial decisions with Israel.”</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter33_verse22"></a><b><sup>22 </sup></b>And as to Dan he said:</p>
<p class="sp">“Dan is a lion cub.</p>
<p class="sp">He will leap out from Ba′shan.”</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter33_verse23"></a><b><sup>23 </sup></b>And as to Naph′ta·li he said:</p>
<p class="sp">“Naph′ta·li is satisfied with the approval</p>
<p class="sz">And full of the blessing of Jehovah.</p>
<p class="sz">Do take possession of the west and south.”</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter33_verse24"></a><b><sup>24 </sup></b>And as to Ash′er he said:</p>
<p class="sp">“Blessed with sons is Ash′er.</p>
<p class="sz">Let him become one approved by his brothers,</p>
<p class="sz">And one dipping his foot in oil.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter33_verse25"></a><b><sup>25 </sup></b>Iron and copper are your gate locks,</p>
<p class="sz">And in proportion to your days is your leisurely walk.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter33_verse26"></a><b><sup>26 </sup></b>There is none like the true God of Jesh′u·run,</p>
<p class="sz">Who rides upon heaven in help of you</p>
<p class="sz">And upon cloudy skies in his eminence.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter33_verse27"></a><b><sup>27 </sup></b>A hiding place is the God of ancient time,</p>
<p class="sz">And underneath are the indefinitely lasting arms.</p>
<p class="sp">And he will drive away from before you the enemy,</p>
<p class="sz">And he will say, ‘Annihilate them!’</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter33_verse28"></a><b><sup>28 </sup></b>And Israel will reside in security,</p>
<p class="sz">The fountain of Jacob by itself,</p>
<p class="sp">Upon a land of grain and new wine.</p>
<p class="sz">Yes, his heavens will let the dew drip down.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter33_verse29"></a><b><sup>29 </sup></b>Happy you are, O Israel!</p>
<p class="sz">Who is there like you,</p>
<p class="sz">A people enjoying salvation in Jehovah,</p>
<p class="sp">The shield of your help,</p>
<p class="sz">And the One who is your eminent sword?</p>
<p class="sp">So your enemies will cringe before you,</p>
<p class="sz">And you—upon their high places you will tread.”</p>
</body>
</html>
