<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="application/xhtml+xml; charset=utf-8" />
<title>Joshua 7</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/bi12.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
<p class="w_biblebookname">Joshua</p><p class="sb"><a id="chapter7"></a><a id="chapter7_verse1"></a><span class="w_ch"><b>7 </b></span>And the sons of Israel went committing an act of unfaithfulness respecting the thing devoted to destruction in that A′chan the son of Car′mi, the son of Zab′di, the son of Ze′rah, of the tribe of Judah, took some of the thing devoted to destruction. At this Jehovah’s anger grew hot against the sons of Israel.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter7_verse2"></a><b><sup>2 </sup></b>Then Joshua sent men out from Jer′i·cho to A′i, which is close by Beth-a′ven, to the east of Beth′el, and said to them: “Go up and spy on the land.” Accordingly the men went up and spied on A′i. <a id="chapter7_verse3"></a><b><sup>3 </sup></b>After that they returned to Joshua and said to him: “Let not all the people go up. Let about two thousand men or about three thousand men go up and strike A′i. Do not weary all the people with going there, for they are few.”</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter7_verse4"></a><b><sup>4 </sup></b>So about three thousand men of the people went up there, but they took to flight before the men of A′i. <a id="chapter7_verse5"></a><b><sup>5 </sup></b>And the men of A′i got to strike down about thirty-six men of them, and they went pursuing them from before the gate as far as Sheb′a·rim and continued striking them down on the descent. Consequently <a id="page295"></a>the heart of the people began to melt and became as water.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter7_verse6"></a><b><sup>6 </sup></b>At this Joshua ripped his mantles and fell upon his face to the earth before the ark of Jehovah until the evening, he and the older men of Israel, and they kept putting dust upon their heads. <a id="chapter7_verse7"></a><b><sup>7 </sup></b>And Joshua went on to say: “Alas, Sovereign Lord Jehovah, why did you bring this people all the way across the Jordan, just to give us into the hand of the Am′or·ites for them to destroy us? And if only we had taken it upon ourselves and continued dwelling on the other side of the Jordan! <a id="chapter7_verse8"></a><b><sup>8 </sup></b>Excuse me, O Jehovah, but what can I say after Israel has turned his back before his enemies? <a id="chapter7_verse9"></a><b><sup>9 </sup></b>And the Ca′naan·ites and all the inhabitants of the land will hear of it, and they will certainly surround us and cut our name off from the earth; and what will you do for your great name?”</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter7_verse10"></a><b><sup>10 </sup></b>In turn Jehovah said to Joshua: “Get up, you! Why is it that you are falling upon your face? <a id="chapter7_verse11"></a><b><sup>11 </sup></b>Israel has sinned, and they have also overstepped my covenant that I laid as a command upon them; and they have also taken some of the thing devoted to destruction and have also stolen and also kept it secret and have also put it among their own articles. <a id="chapter7_verse12"></a><b><sup>12 </sup></b>And the sons of Israel will not be able to rise up against their enemies. The back is what they will turn before their enemies, because they have become a thing devoted to destruction. I shall not prove to be with <span class="smcap">YOU </span>again unless <span class="smcap">YOU </span>annihilate the thing devoted to destruction out of <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>midst. <a id="chapter7_verse13"></a><b><sup>13 </sup></b>Get up! Sanctify the people, and you must say, ‘Sanctify yourselves tomorrow, for this is what Jehovah the God of Israel has said: “A thing devoted to destruction is in your midst, O Israel. You will not be able to rise up against your enemies until <span class="smcap">YOU </span>people have removed the thing devoted to destruction from <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>midst. <a id="chapter7_verse14"></a><b><sup>14 </sup></b>And <span class="smcap">YOU </span>must present yourselves in the morning, tribe by tribe, and it must occur that the tribe that Jehovah will pick will come near, family by family, and the family that Jehovah will pick will come near, household by household, and the household that Jehovah will pick will come near, able-bodied man by able-bodied man. <a id="chapter7_verse15"></a><b><sup>15 </sup></b>And it must occur that the one picked with the thing devoted to destruction will be burned with fire, he and all that belongs to him, because he has overstepped the covenant of Jehovah and because he has committed a disgraceful folly in Israel.”’”</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter7_verse16"></a><b><sup>16 </sup></b>Then Joshua rose early in the morning and had Israel come near, tribe by tribe of it, and the tribe of Judah got to be picked. <a id="chapter7_verse17"></a><b><sup>17 </sup></b>Next he had the families of Judah come near and picked the family of the Ze′rah·ites, after which he had the family of the Ze′rah·ites come near, able-bodied man by able-bodied man, and Zab′di got to be picked. <a id="chapter7_verse18"></a><b><sup>18 </sup></b>Finally he had his household come near, able-bodied man by able-bodied man, and A′chan the son of Car′mi, the son of Zab′di, the son of Ze′rah, of the tribe of Judah, got to be picked. <a id="chapter7_verse19"></a><b><sup>19 </sup></b>Then Joshua said to A′chan: “My son, render, please, glory to Jehovah the God of Israel and make confession to him, and tell me, please, What have you done? Do not hide it from me.”</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter7_verse20"></a><b><sup>20 </sup></b>At this A′chan answered Joshua and said: “For a fact I—I have sinned against Jehovah the God of Israel, and this way and that way I have done. <a id="chapter7_verse21"></a><b><sup>21 </sup></b>When I got to see among the spoil an official garment from Shi′nar, a good-looking one, and two <a id="page296"></a>hundred shekels of silver and one gold bar, fifty shekels being its weight, then I wanted them, and I took them; and, look! they are hidden in the earth in the midst of my tent with the money underneath it.”</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter7_verse22"></a><b><sup>22 </sup></b>At once Joshua sent messengers, and they went running to the tent, and, look! it was hidden in his tent with the money underneath it. <a id="chapter7_verse23"></a><b><sup>23 </sup></b>So they took them from the midst of the tent and brought them to Joshua and all the sons of Israel and poured them out before Jehovah. <a id="chapter7_verse24"></a><b><sup>24 </sup></b>Joshua, and all Israel with him, now took A′chan the son of Ze′rah and the silver and the official garment and the bar of gold and his sons and his daughters and his bull and his ass and his flock and his tent and everything that was his and they brought them up to the low plain of A′chor. <a id="chapter7_verse25"></a><b><sup>25 </sup></b>Then Joshua said: “Why have you brought ostracism upon us? Jehovah will bring ostracism upon you on this day.” With that all Israel went pelting him with stones, after which they burned them with fire. Thus they stoned them with stones. <a id="chapter7_verse26"></a><b><sup>26 </sup></b>And they proceeded to raise up over him a big pile of stones, down to this day. At this Jehovah turned away from his hot anger. That is why the name of that place has been called Low Plain of A′chor, down to this day.</p>
</body>
</html>
