<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="application/xhtml+xml; charset=utf-8" />
<title>Joshua 18</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/bi12.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
<p class="w_biblebookname">Joshua</p><p class="sb"><a id="chapter18"></a><a id="chapter18_verse1"></a><span class="w_ch"><b>18 </b></span>Then all the assembly of the sons of Israel were congregated at Shi′loh, and they proceeded to locate the tent <a id="page311"></a>of meeting there, as the land was now subdued before them. <a id="chapter18_verse2"></a><b><sup>2 </sup></b>But there were still left among the sons of Israel those whose inheritance they had not apportioned out, namely, seven tribes. <a id="chapter18_verse3"></a><b><sup>3 </sup></b>So Joshua said to the sons of Israel: “How long are <span class="smcap">YOU </span>going to be delinquent about going in to take possession of the land that Jehovah the God of <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>forefathers has given <span class="smcap">YOU</span>? <a id="chapter18_verse4"></a><b><sup>4 </sup></b>Furnish for yourselves three men of each tribe and let me send them out, that they may get up and walk about in the land and map it out in accord with their inheritance, and let them come to me. <a id="chapter18_verse5"></a><b><sup>5 </sup></b>And they must apportion it among themselves into seven shares. Judah will keep standing on his territory to the south, and the house of Joseph will keep standing on their territory to the north. <a id="chapter18_verse6"></a><b><sup>6 </sup></b>As for <span class="smcap">YOU </span>people, <span class="smcap">YOU </span>will map out the land into seven shares, and <span class="smcap">YOU </span>must bring them here to me, and I must cast lots here for <span class="smcap">YOU </span>before Jehovah our God. <a id="chapter18_verse7"></a><b><sup>7 </sup></b>For the Levites have no share in among <span class="smcap">YOU</span>, because the priesthood of Jehovah is their inheritance; and Gad and Reu′ben and the half tribe of Ma·nas′seh have taken their inheritance on the side of the Jordan toward the east, which Moses the servant of Jehovah has given them.”</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter18_verse8"></a><b><sup>8 </sup></b>So the men got up that they might go, and Joshua proceeded to command those who were going to map out the land, saying: “Go and walk about in the land and map it out and return to me, and here is where I shall draw lots for <span class="smcap">YOU </span>before Jehovah in Shi′loh.” <a id="chapter18_verse9"></a><b><sup>9 </sup></b>With that the men went and passed through the land and mapped it out by cities in seven shares, in a book. After that they came to Joshua at the camp in Shi′loh, <a id="chapter18_verse10"></a><b><sup>10 </sup></b>and Joshua went drawing lots for them in Shi′loh before Jehovah. Thus Joshua there apportioned the land to the sons of Israel in their shares.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter18_verse11"></a><b><sup>11 </sup></b>Then the lot came up of the tribe of the sons of Benjamin by their families, and the territory of their lot went out between the sons of Judah and the sons of Joseph. <a id="chapter18_verse12"></a><b><sup>12 </sup></b>And their boundary came to be at the northern corner from the Jordan, and the boundary went up to the slope of Jer′i·cho on the north and went up on the mountain westward, and its termination proved to be at the wilderness of Beth-a′ven. <a id="chapter18_verse13"></a><b><sup>13 </sup></b>And the boundary passed over from there to Luz, at the southern slope of Luz, that is to say, Beth′el; and the boundary went down to At′a·roth-ad′dar upon the mountain that is on the south of Lower Beth-ho′ron. <a id="chapter18_verse14"></a><b><sup>14 </sup></b>And the boundary was marked out and went around at the western side to the south from the mountain that faces Beth-ho′ron to the south; and its termination proved to be at Kir′i·ath-ba′al, that is to say, Kir′i·ath-je′a·rim, a city of the sons of Judah. This is the western side.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter18_verse15"></a><b><sup>15 </sup></b>And the side to the south was from the extremity of Kir′i·ath-je′a·rim, and the boundary went out westward and went out to the spring of the waters of Neph·to′ah. <a id="chapter18_verse16"></a><b><sup>16 </sup></b>And the boundary went down to the extremity of the mountain that faces the valley of the son of Hin′nom, which is in the low plain of Reph′a·im to the north, and it went down to the valley of Hin′nom, to the slope of the Jeb′u·site on the south, and went down to En-ro′gel. <a id="chapter18_verse17"></a><b><sup>17 </sup></b>And it was marked out northward and went out to En-she′mesh and went out to Gel·i′loth, which is in front of the ascent of A·dum′mim; and it went down to the stone of Bo′han the son of Reu′ben. <a id="chapter18_verse18"></a><b><sup>18 </sup></b>And it passed <a id="page312"></a>over to the northern slope in front of the Ar′a·bah and went down to the Ar′a·bah. <a id="chapter18_verse19"></a><b><sup>19 </sup></b>And the boundary passed over to the northern slope of Beth-hog′lah, and the termination of it (the border) proved to be at the northern bay of the Salt Sea at the southern end of the Jordan. This was the southern boundary. <a id="chapter18_verse20"></a><b><sup>20 </sup></b>And the Jordan served as its boundary on the eastern side. This was the inheritance of the sons of Benjamin by their families, by its boundaries all around.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter18_verse21"></a><b><sup>21 </sup></b>And the cities of the tribe of the sons of Benjamin by their families proved to be Jer′i·cho and Beth-hog′lah and E′mek-ke′ziz, <a id="chapter18_verse22"></a><b><sup>22 </sup></b>and Beth-ar′a·bah and Zem·a·ra′im and Beth′el, <a id="chapter18_verse23"></a><b><sup>23 </sup></b>and Av′vim and Pa′rah and Oph′rah, <a id="chapter18_verse24"></a><b><sup>24 </sup></b>and Che′phar-am′mo·ni and Oph′ni and Ge′ba; twelve cities and their settlements.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter18_verse25"></a><b><sup>25 </sup></b>Gib′e·on and Ra′mah and Be·er′oth, <a id="chapter18_verse26"></a><b><sup>26 </sup></b>and Miz′peh and Che·phi′rah and Mo′zah, <a id="chapter18_verse27"></a><b><sup>27 </sup></b>and Re′kem and Ir′pe·el and Tar′a·lah, <a id="chapter18_verse28"></a><b><sup>28 </sup></b>and Ze′lah, Ha-e′leph and Je·bu′si, that is to say, Jerusalem, Gib′e·ah and Kir′i·ath; fourteen cities and their settlements.</p>
<p class="sb">This was the inheritance of the sons of Benjamin by their families.</p>
</body>
</html>
