<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="application/xhtml+xml; charset=utf-8" />
<title>Joshua 15</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/bi12.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
<p class="w_biblebookname">Joshua</p><p class="sb"><a id="chapter15"></a><a id="chapter15_verse1"></a><span class="w_ch"><b>15 </b></span>And the lot of the tribe of the sons of Judah by their families came to be to the boundary of E′dom, the wilderness of Zin, to the Neg′eb at its southern end. <a id="chapter15_verse2"></a><b><sup>2 </sup></b>And their southern boundary came to be from the extremity of the Salt Sea, from the bay that faces southward. <a id="chapter15_verse3"></a><b><sup>3 </sup></b>And it went out southward to the ascent of A·krab′bim and passed over to Zin and went up from the south to Ka′desh-bar′ne·a and passed over to Hez′ron and went up to Ad′dar and went around to Kar′ka. <a id="chapter15_verse4"></a><b><sup>4 </sup></b>And it passed on to Az′mon and went out to the torrent valley of Egypt; and the boundary’s termination proved to be at the sea. This came to be their southern boundary.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter15_verse5"></a><b><sup>5 </sup></b>And the eastern boundary was the Salt Sea up to the end of the Jordan, and the boundary at the northern corner was at the bay of the sea, at the end of the Jordan. <a id="chapter15_verse6"></a><b><sup>6 </sup></b>And the boundary went up to Beth-hog′lah and passed over at the north of Beth-ar′a·bah, and the boundary went up to the stone of Bo′han the son of Reu′ben. <a id="chapter15_verse7"></a><b><sup>7 </sup></b>And the boundary went up to De′bir at the low plain of A′chor and turning northward to Gil′gal, which is in front of the ascent of A·dum′mim, which is south of the torrent valley; and the boundary passed over to the waters of En-she′mesh, and its termination proved to be En-ro′gel. <a id="chapter15_verse8"></a><b><sup>8 </sup></b>And the boundary went up to the valley of the son of Hin′nom to the slope of the Jeb′u·site at the south, that is to say, Jerusalem; and the boundary went up to the top of the mountain that faces the valley of Hin′nom to the west, which is at the extremity of the low plain of Reph′a·im to the north. <a id="chapter15_verse9"></a><b><sup>9 </sup></b>And the boundary was marked out from the top of the mountain to the spring of the waters of Neph·to′ah, and went out to the cities of Mount E′phron; and the boundary was marked out to Ba′al·ah, that is to say, Kir′i·ath-je′a·rim. <a id="chapter15_verse10"></a><b><sup>10 </sup></b>And the boundary went around from Ba′al·ah westward to Mount Se′ir and passed over to the slope of Mount Je′a·rim at the north, that is to say, Ches′a·lon; and it went down to Beth-she′mesh and passed over to Tim′nah. <a id="chapter15_verse11"></a><b><sup>11 </sup></b>And the boundary went out to the slope of Ek′ron to the north, and the boundary was marked out to Shik′ke·ron and passed over to Mount Ba′al·ah and went out to Jab′ne·el; and the boundary’s termination proved to be at the sea.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter15_verse12"></a><b><sup>12 </sup></b>And the western boundary was at the Great Sea and its shoreland. This was the boundary all around, of the sons of Judah by their families.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter15_verse13"></a><b><sup>13 </sup></b>And to Ca′leb the son of Je·phun′neh he gave a share in the midst of the sons of Judah at the order of Jehovah to Joshua, namely, Kir′i·ath-ar′ba (said Ar′ba being the father of A′nak), that is to say, He′bron. <a id="chapter15_verse14"></a><b><sup>14 </sup></b>So Ca′leb drove away from there the three sons of A′nak, namely, She′shai and A·hi′man and Tal′mai, those born of A′nak. <a id="chapter15_verse15"></a><b><sup>15 </sup></b>Then he went up from there to the inhabitants of De′bir. (Now the name of De′bir before that was Kir′i·ath-se′pher.) <a id="chapter15_verse16"></a><b><sup>16 </sup></b>And Ca′leb proceeded to say: <a id="page308"></a>“Whoever strikes Kir′i·ath-se′pher and does capture it, I shall certainly give him Ach′sah my daughter as a wife.” <a id="chapter15_verse17"></a><b><sup>17 </sup></b>At that Oth′ni·el the son of Ke′naz, Ca′leb’s brother, captured it. Accordingly he gave him Ach′sah his daughter as a wife. <a id="chapter15_verse18"></a><b><sup>18 </sup></b>And it came about that when she was going home, she kept inciting him to ask a field from her father. Then she clapped her hands while upon the ass. At this Ca′leb said to her: “What do you want?” <a id="chapter15_verse19"></a><b><sup>19 </sup></b>So she said: “Do give me a blessing, for it is a piece of land to the south you have given me, and you must give me Gul′loth-ma′im.” Accordingly he gave her Upper Gul′loth and Lower Gul′loth.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter15_verse20"></a><b><sup>20 </sup></b>This was the inheritance of the tribe of the sons of Judah by their families.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter15_verse21"></a><b><sup>21 </sup></b>And the cities at the extremity of the tribe of the sons of Judah toward the boundary of E′dom in the south came to be Kab′ze·el and E′der and Ja′gur, <a id="chapter15_verse22"></a><b><sup>22 </sup></b>and Ki′nah and Di·mo′nah and A·da′dah, <a id="chapter15_verse23"></a><b><sup>23 </sup></b>and Ke′desh and Ha′zor and Ith′nan, <a id="chapter15_verse24"></a><b><sup>24 </sup></b>Ziph and Te′lem and Be·a′loth, <a id="chapter15_verse25"></a><b><sup>25 </sup></b>and Ha′zor-ha·dat′tah and Ke′ri·oth-hez′ron, that is to say, Ha′zor, <a id="chapter15_verse26"></a><b><sup>26 </sup></b>A′mam and She′ma and Mo·la′dah, <a id="chapter15_verse27"></a><b><sup>27 </sup></b>and Ha′zar-gad′dah and Hesh′mon and Beth-pel′et, <a id="chapter15_verse28"></a><b><sup>28 </sup></b>and Ha′zar-shu′al and Be′er-she′ba and Biz·i·o·thi′ah, <a id="chapter15_verse29"></a><b><sup>29 </sup></b>Ba′al·ah and I′im and E′zem, <a id="chapter15_verse30"></a><b><sup>30 </sup></b>and El·to′lad and Che′sil and Hor′mah, <a id="chapter15_verse31"></a><b><sup>31 </sup></b>and Zik′lag and Mad·man′nah and San·san′nah, <a id="chapter15_verse32"></a><b><sup>32 </sup></b>and Le·ba′oth and Shil′him and A′in and Rim′mon; all the cities being twenty-nine, together with their settlements.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter15_verse33"></a><b><sup>33 </sup></b>In the She·phe′lah there were Esh′ta·ol and Zo′rah and Ash′nah, <a id="chapter15_verse34"></a><b><sup>34 </sup></b>and Za·no′ah and En-gan′nim, Tap′pu·ah and E′nam, <a id="chapter15_verse35"></a><b><sup>35 </sup></b>Jar′muth and A·dul′lam, So′coh and A·ze′kah, <a id="chapter15_verse36"></a><b><sup>36 </sup></b>and Sha′a·ra′im and Ad·i·tha′im and Ge·de′rah and Ged·e·ro·tha′im; fourteen cities and their settlements.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter15_verse37"></a><b><sup>37 </sup></b>Ze′nan and Ha·dash′ah and Mig′dal-gad, <a id="chapter15_verse38"></a><b><sup>38 </sup></b>and Di′le·an and Miz′peh and Jok′the·el, <a id="chapter15_verse39"></a><b><sup>39 </sup></b>La′chish and Boz′kath and Eg′lon, <a id="chapter15_verse40"></a><b><sup>40 </sup></b>and Cab′bon and Lah′mam and Chit′lish, <a id="chapter15_verse41"></a><b><sup>41 </sup></b>and Ge·de′roth, Beth-da′gon and Na′a·mah and Mak·ke′dah; sixteen cities and their settlements.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter15_verse42"></a><b><sup>42 </sup></b>Lib′nah and E′ther and A′shan, <a id="chapter15_verse43"></a><b><sup>43 </sup></b>and Iph′tah and Ash′nah and Ne′zib, <a id="chapter15_verse44"></a><b><sup>44 </sup></b>and Kei′lah and Ach′zib and Ma·re′shah; nine cities and their settlements.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter15_verse45"></a><b><sup>45 </sup></b>Ek′ron and its dependent towns and its settlements. <a id="chapter15_verse46"></a><b><sup>46 </sup></b>From Ek′ron westward all that is alongside Ash′dod and their settlements.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter15_verse47"></a><b><sup>47 </sup></b>Ash′dod, its dependent towns and its settlements; Ga′za, its dependent towns and its settlements, down to the torrent valley of Egypt, and the Great Sea and the adjacent region.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter15_verse48"></a><b><sup>48 </sup></b>And in the mountainous region Sha′mir and Jat′tir and So′coh, <a id="chapter15_verse49"></a><b><sup>49 </sup></b>and Dan′nah and Kir′i·ath-san′nah, that is to say, De′bir, <a id="chapter15_verse50"></a><b><sup>50 </sup></b>and A′nab and Esh′te·moh and A′nim, <a id="chapter15_verse51"></a><b><sup>51 </sup></b>and Go′shen and Ho′lon and Gi′loh; eleven cities and their settlements.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter15_verse52"></a><b><sup>52 </sup></b>Arab and Du′mah and E′shan, <a id="chapter15_verse53"></a><b><sup>53 </sup></b>and Ja′nim and Beth-tap′pu·ah and A·phe′kah, <a id="chapter15_verse54"></a><b><sup>54 </sup></b>and Hum′tah and Kir′i·ath-ar′ba, that is to say, He′bron, and Zi′or; nine cities and their settlements.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter15_verse55"></a><b><sup>55 </sup></b>Ma′on, Car′mel and Ziph and Jut′tah, <a id="chapter15_verse56"></a><b><sup>56 </sup></b>and Jez′re·el and Jok′de·am and Za·no′ah, <a id="chapter15_verse57"></a><b><sup>57 </sup></b>Ka′in, Gib′e·ah and Tim′nah; ten cities and their settlements.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter15_verse58"></a><b><sup>58 </sup></b>Hal′hul, Beth-zur and Ge′dor, <a id="chapter15_verse59"></a><b><sup>59 </sup></b>and Ma′a·rath and <a id="page309"></a>Beth-a′noth and El′te·kon; six cities and their settlements.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter15_verse60"></a><b><sup>60 </sup></b>Kir′i·ath-ba′al, that is to say, Kir′i·ath-je′a·rim, and Rab′bah; two cities and their settlements.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter15_verse61"></a><b><sup>61 </sup></b>In the wilderness Beth-ar′a·bah, Mid′din and Se·ca′cah, <a id="chapter15_verse62"></a><b><sup>62 </sup></b>and Nib′shan and the City of Salt and En-ge′di; six cities and their settlements.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter15_verse63"></a><b><sup>63 </sup></b>As for the Jeb′u·sites who were dwelling in Jerusalem, the sons of Judah were not able to drive them away; and the Jeb′u·sites continue dwelling with the sons of Judah in Jerusalem down to this day.</p>
</body>
</html>
