<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="application/xhtml+xml; charset=utf-8" />
<title>Judges 4</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/bi12.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
<p class="w_biblebookname">Judges</p><p class="sb"><a id="chapter4"></a><a id="chapter4_verse1"></a><span class="w_ch"><b>4 </b></span>Then the sons of Israel again began to do what was bad in Jehovah’s eyes now that E′hud was dead. <a id="chapter4_verse2"></a><b><sup>2 </sup></b>So Jehovah sold them into the hand of Ja′bin the king of Ca′naan, who reigned in Ha′zor; and the chief of his army was Sis′e·ra, and he was dwelling in Ha·ro′sheth of the nations. <a id="chapter4_verse3"></a><b><sup>3 </sup></b>And the sons of Israel began to cry out to Jehovah, because he had nine hundred war chariots with iron scythes, and he himself oppressed the sons of Israel with harshness twenty years.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter4_verse4"></a><b><sup>4 </sup></b>Now Deb′o·rah, a prophetess, <a id="page327"></a>the wife of Lap′pi·doth, was judging Israel at that particular time. <a id="chapter4_verse5"></a><b><sup>5 </sup></b>And she was dwelling under Deb′o·rah’s palm tree between Ra′mah and Beth′el in the mountainous region of E′phra·im; and the sons of Israel would go up to her for judgment. <a id="chapter4_verse6"></a><b><sup>6 </sup></b>And she proceeded to send and call Ba′rak the son of A·bin′o·am out of Ke′desh-naph′ta·li and to say to him: “Has not Jehovah the God of Israel given the command? ‘Go and you must spread yourself out on Mount Ta′bor, and you must take with you ten thousand men out of the sons of Naph′ta·li and out of the sons of Zeb′u·lun. <a id="chapter4_verse7"></a><b><sup>7 </sup></b>And I shall certainly draw to you at the torrent valley of Ki′shon Sis′e·ra the chief of Ja′bin’s army and his war chariots and his crowd, and I shall indeed give him into your hand.’”</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter4_verse8"></a><b><sup>8 </sup></b>At this Ba′rak said to her: “If you will go with me, I also shall certainly go; but if you will not go with me, I shall not go.” <a id="chapter4_verse9"></a><b><sup>9 </sup></b>To this she said: “Without fail I shall go with you. Just the same, the beautifying thing will not become yours on the way that you are going, for it will be into the hand of a woman that Jehovah will sell Sis′e·ra.” With that Deb′o·rah got up and went with Ba′rak to Ke′desh. <a id="chapter4_verse10"></a><b><sup>10 </sup></b>And Ba′rak began to call Zeb′u·lun and Naph′ta·li together to Ke′desh, and ten thousand men went on up following his steps; and Deb′o·rah went on up with him.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter4_verse11"></a><b><sup>11 </sup></b>Incidentally He′ber the Ken′ite had separated from the Ken′ites, the sons of Ho′bab, whose son-in-law Moses was, and he had his tent pitched near the big tree in Za·a·nan′nim, which is at Ke′desh.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter4_verse12"></a><b><sup>12 </sup></b>Then they reported to Sis′e·ra that Ba′rak the son of A·bin′o·am had gone up to Mount Ta′bor. <a id="chapter4_verse13"></a><b><sup>13 </sup></b>At once Sis′e·ra called together all his war chariots, the nine hundred war chariots with iron scythes, and all the people that were with him, out of Ha·ro′sheth of the nations to the torrent valley of Ki′shon. <a id="chapter4_verse14"></a><b><sup>14 </sup></b>Deb′o·rah now said to Ba′rak: “Get up, for this is the day that Jehovah will certainly give Sis′e·ra into your hand. Is it not Jehovah that has gone out before you?” And Ba′rak went descending from Mount Ta′bor with ten thousand men behind him. <a id="chapter4_verse15"></a><b><sup>15 </sup></b>And Jehovah began to throw Sis′e·ra and all his war chariots and all the camp into confusion by the edge of the sword before Ba′rak. Finally Sis′e·ra got down off the chariot and took to flight on foot. <a id="chapter4_verse16"></a><b><sup>16 </sup></b>And Ba′rak chased after the war chariots and the camp as far as Ha·ro′sheth of the nations, so that all the camp of Sis′e·ra fell by the edge of the sword. Not as much as one remained.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter4_verse17"></a><b><sup>17 </sup></b>As for Sis′e·ra, he fled on foot to the tent of Ja′el the wife of He′ber the Ken′ite, for there was peace between Ja′bin the king of Ha′zor and the household of He′ber the Ken′ite. <a id="chapter4_verse18"></a><b><sup>18 </sup></b>Then Ja′el came on out to meet Sis′e·ra and said to him: “Turn this way, my lord, turn this way to me. Do not be afraid.” So he turned aside to her into the tent. Later she covered him with a blanket. <a id="chapter4_verse19"></a><b><sup>19 </sup></b>In time he said to her: “Give me, please, a little water to drink, for I am thirsty.” Accordingly she opened a skin bottle of milk and gave him a drink, after which she covered him. <a id="chapter4_verse20"></a><b><sup>20 </sup></b>And he went on to say to her: “Stand at the entrance of the tent, and it must occur that if anybody comes and does ask you and says, ‘Is there a man here?’ you must then say, ‘No!’”</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter4_verse21"></a><b><sup>21 </sup></b>And Ja′el the wife of He′ber proceeded to take a pin of the tent and to put the hammer into her hand. Then she went to him <a id="page328"></a>stealthily and drove the pin into his temples and beat it into the earth, while he was fast asleep and weary. So he died.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter4_verse22"></a><b><sup>22 </sup></b>And, look! there was Ba′rak pursuing Sis′e·ra. Ja′el now came on out to meet him and said to him: “Come and I shall show you the man you are looking for.” So in he went to her, and, look! there was Sis′e·ra fallen dead, with the pin in his temples.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter4_verse23"></a><b><sup>23 </sup></b>Thus God subdued Ja′bin the king of Ca′naan before the sons of Israel on that day. <a id="chapter4_verse24"></a><b><sup>24 </sup></b>And the hand of the sons of Israel went on getting harder and harder against Ja′bin the king of Ca′naan, until they had cut off Ja′bin the king of Ca′naan.</p>
</body>
</html>
