<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="application/xhtml+xml; charset=utf-8" />
<title>Judges 7</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/bi12.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
<p class="w_biblebookname">Judges</p><p class="sb"><a id="chapter7"></a><a id="chapter7_verse1"></a><span class="w_ch"><b>7 </b></span>Then Jer·ub·ba′al, that is to say, Gid′e·on, and all the people who were with him, rose early and took up camping at the well of Ha′rod; and the camp of Mid′i·an happened to be on the north of him, at the hill of Mo′reh, in the low plain. <a id="chapter7_verse2"></a><b><sup>2 </sup></b>Jehovah now said to Gid′e·on: “The people who are with you are too many for me to give Mid′i·an into their hand. Perhaps Israel would brag about itself against me, saying, ‘My hand it was that saved me.’ <a id="chapter7_verse3"></a><b><sup>3 </sup></b>And now call out, please, in the hearing of the people, saying, ‘Who is there afraid and trembling? Let him retire.’” So Gid′e·on put them to the proof. With that, twenty-two thousand of the people retired, and there were ten thousand that remained.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter7_verse4"></a><b><sup>4 </sup></b>Still Jehovah said to Gid′e·on: “There are yet too many people. Have them go down to the water that I may put them to the proof for you there. And it must occur that of whomever I say to you, ‘This one will go with you,’ he is one that will go with you, but every one of whom I say to you, ‘This one will not go along with you,’ he is one that will not go along.” <a id="chapter7_verse5"></a><b><sup>5 </sup></b>So he had the people go down to the water.</p>
<p class="sb">Then Jehovah said to Gid′e·on: “Every one that laps up some of the water with his tongue just as a dog laps, you will set him by himself, also every one that bends down upon his knees to drink.” <a id="chapter7_verse6"></a><b><sup>6 </sup></b>And the number of those lapping with their hand to their mouth turned out to be three hundred men. As for all the rest of the people, they bent down upon their knees to drink water.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter7_verse7"></a><b><sup>7 </sup></b>Jehovah now said to Gid′e·on: “By the three hundred men who did the lapping I shall save <span class="smcap">YOU </span>people, and I will give Mid′i·an into your hand. As for all the other people, let them go each one to his place.” <a id="chapter7_verse8"></a><b><sup>8 </sup></b>So they took the provisions of the people in their hand, and their horns, and all the men of Israel he sent <a id="page333"></a>away each one to his home; and he kept hold of the three hundred men. As for the camp of Mid′i·an, it happened to be down below him in the low plain.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter7_verse9"></a><b><sup>9 </sup></b>And it came about during that night that Jehovah proceeded to say to him: “Rise up, descend upon the camp, for I have given it into your hand. <a id="chapter7_verse10"></a><b><sup>10 </sup></b>But if you are afraid to descend, descend, you with Pu′rah your attendant, to the camp. <a id="chapter7_verse11"></a><b><sup>11 </sup></b>And you must listen to what they will speak, and afterward your hands will certainly grow strong, and you will be certain to descend upon the camp.” At that he and Pu′rah his attendant made their descent to the edge of those in battle formation who were in the camp.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter7_verse12"></a><b><sup>12 </sup></b>Now Mid′i·an and Am′a·lek and all the Easterners were plumped in the low plain as numerous as locusts; and their camels were without number, as numerous as the grains of sand that are on the seashore. <a id="chapter7_verse13"></a><b><sup>13 </sup></b>Gid′e·on now came, and, look! there was a man relating a dream to his companion, and he went on to say: “Here is a dream that I have dreamed. And, look! there was a round cake of barley bread turning over and over into the camp of Mid′i·an. Then it came to a tent and struck it so that it fell, and it went turning it upside down, and the tent fell flat.” <a id="chapter7_verse14"></a><b><sup>14 </sup></b>At this his companion answered and said: “This is nothing else but the sword of Gid′e·on the son of Jo′ash, a man of Israel. The true God has given Mid′i·an and all the camp into his hand.”</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter7_verse15"></a><b><sup>15 </sup></b>And it came about that as soon as Gid′e·on heard the relating of the dream and its explanation, he began to worship. After that he returned to the camp of Israel and said: “Get up, for Jehovah has given the camp of Mid′i·an into <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>hand.” <a id="chapter7_verse16"></a><b><sup>16 </sup></b>Then he divided the three hundred men up into three bands and put horns in the hands of all of them and large empty jars, and torches inside the large jars. <a id="chapter7_verse17"></a><b><sup>17 </sup></b>And he went on to say to them: “Y<span class="smcap">OU </span>should learn from watching me, and that is how <span class="smcap">YOU </span>should do. And when I am come to the edge of the camp, it must also occur that just as I shall do, so <span class="smcap">YOU </span>will do. <a id="chapter7_verse18"></a><b><sup>18 </sup></b>When I have blown the horn, I and all who are with me, <span class="smcap">YOU </span>also must blow the horns, <span class="smcap">YOU </span>too, round about all the camp, and <span class="smcap">YOU </span>must say, ‘Jehovah’s and Gid′e·on’s!’”</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter7_verse19"></a><b><sup>19 </sup></b>In time Gid′e·on came with the hundred men who were with him to the edge of the camp at the start of the middle night watch. They had just got through posting the sentries. And they proceeded to blow the horns, and there was a dashing to pieces of the large water jars that were in their hands. <a id="chapter7_verse20"></a><b><sup>20 </sup></b>At that the three bands blew the horns and shattered the large jars and took fresh hold on the torches with their left hand and with their right hand on the horns to blow them, and they began calling out: “Jehovah’s sword and Gid′e·on’s!” <a id="chapter7_verse21"></a><b><sup>21 </sup></b>All the while they kept standing each one in his place all around the camp, and the whole camp got on the run and broke out into shouting and went fleeing. <a id="chapter7_verse22"></a><b><sup>22 </sup></b>And the three hundred continued to blow the horns, and Jehovah proceeded to set the sword of each one against the other in all the camp; and the camp kept up their flight as far as Beth-shit′tah, on to Zer′e·rah, as far as the outskirts of A′bel-me·ho′lah by Tab′bath.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter7_verse23"></a><b><sup>23 </sup></b>Meantime the men of Israel were called together from Naph′ta·li and Ash′er and all of <a id="page334"></a>Ma·nas′seh, and they went chasing after Mid′i·an. <a id="chapter7_verse24"></a><b><sup>24 </sup></b>And Gid′e·on sent messengers into all the mountainous region of E′phra·im, saying: “Go down to meet Mid′i·an and capture ahead of them the waters as far as Beth-bar′ah and the Jordan.” So all the men of E′phra·im were called together, and they got to capture the waters as far as Beth-bar′ah and the Jordan. <a id="chapter7_verse25"></a><b><sup>25 </sup></b>They also got to capture the two princes of Mid′i·an, namely, O′reb and Ze′eb; and they proceeded to kill O′reb on the rock of O′reb, and they killed Ze′eb at the wine vat of Ze′eb. And they kept on pursuing Mid′i·an, and they brought the head of O′reb and that of Ze′eb to Gid′e·on in the region of the Jordan.</p>
</body>
</html>
