<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="application/xhtml+xml; charset=utf-8" />
<title>1 Samuel 13</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/bi12.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
<p class="w_biblebookname">1 Samuel</p><p class="sb"><a id="chapter13"></a><a id="chapter13_verse1"></a><span class="w_ch"><b>13 </b></span>Saul was [?] years old when he began to reign, and for two years he reigned over Israel. <a id="chapter13_verse2"></a><b><sup>2 </sup></b>And Saul proceeded to choose for himself three thousand men out of Israel; and two thousand came to be with Saul at Mich′mash and in the mountainous region of Beth′el, and a thousand proved to be with Jon′a·than at <a id="page378"></a>Gib′e·ah of Benjamin, and the rest of the people he sent away, each one to his tent. <a id="chapter13_verse3"></a><b><sup>3 </sup></b>Then Jon′a·than struck down the garrison of the Phi·lis′tines that was in Ge′ba; and the Phi·lis′tines got to hear of it. As for Saul, he had the horn blown throughout all the land, saying: “Let the Hebrews hear!” <a id="chapter13_verse4"></a><b><sup>4 </sup></b>And all Israel itself heard tell: “Saul has struck down a garrison of the Phi·lis′tines, and now Israel has become foul-smelling among the Phi·lis′tines.” So the people were called together to follow Saul to Gil′gal.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter13_verse5"></a><b><sup>5 </sup></b>And the Phi·lis′tines, for their part, collected themselves together to fight against Israel, thirty thousand war chariots and six thousand horsemen and people like the grains of sand that are upon the seashore for multitude; and they went their way up and began camping in Mich′mash to the east of Beth-a′ven. <a id="chapter13_verse6"></a><b><sup>6 </sup></b>And the men of Israel themselves saw that they were in sore straits, because the people were hard pressed; and the people went hiding themselves in the caves and the hollows and the crags and the vaults and the waterpits. <a id="chapter13_verse7"></a><b><sup>7 </sup></b>Hebrews even crossed the Jordan to the land of Gad and Gil′e·ad. But Saul himself was yet in Gil′gal, and all the people trembled while following him. <a id="chapter13_verse8"></a><b><sup>8 </sup></b>And he continued waiting for seven days to the appointed time that Samuel had said; and Samuel did not come to Gil′gal, and the people were scattering from him. <a id="chapter13_verse9"></a><b><sup>9 </sup></b>Finally Saul said: “B<span class="smcap">RING </span>near to me the burnt sacrifice and the communion sacrifices.” With that he went offering up the burnt sacrifice.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter13_verse10"></a><b><sup>10 </sup></b>And it came about that as soon as he had finished offering up the burnt sacrifice, why, there was Samuel coming in. So Saul went out to meet him and bless him. <a id="chapter13_verse11"></a><b><sup>11 </sup></b>Then Samuel said: “What is it you have done?” To this Saul said: “I saw that the people had been dispersed from me, and you—you did not come within the appointed days, and the Phi·lis′tines were being collected together at Mich′mash, <a id="chapter13_verse12"></a><b><sup>12 </sup></b>so I said to myself, ‘Now the Phi·lis′tines will come down against me at Gil′gal, and the face of Jehovah I have not softened.’ So I compelled myself and went offering up the burnt sacrifice.”</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter13_verse13"></a><b><sup>13 </sup></b>At this Samuel said to Saul: “You have acted foolishly. You have not kept the commandment of Jehovah your God that he commanded you, because, if you had, Jehovah would have made your kingdom firm over Israel to time indefinite. <a id="chapter13_verse14"></a><b><sup>14 </sup></b>And now your kingdom will not last. Jehovah will certainly find for himself a man agreeable to his heart; and Jehovah will commission him as a leader over his people, because you did not keep what Jehovah commanded you.”</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter13_verse15"></a><b><sup>15 </sup></b>Then Samuel rose and went his way up from Gil′gal to Gib′e·ah of Benjamin, and Saul proceeded to take the count of the people, those yet found with him, about six hundred men. <a id="chapter13_verse16"></a><b><sup>16 </sup></b>And Saul and Jon′a·than his son and the people yet found with them were dwelling in Ge′ba of Benjamin. As for the Phi·lis′tines, they had encamped in Mich′mash. <a id="chapter13_verse17"></a><b><sup>17 </sup></b>And the force of pillagers would sally forth from the camp of the Phi·lis′tines in three bands. The one band would turn to the road to Oph′rah, to the land of Shu′al, <a id="chapter13_verse18"></a><b><sup>18 </sup></b>and the other band would turn to the road of Beth-ho′ron, and the third band would turn to the road to the boundary that <a id="page379"></a>looks toward the valley of Ze·bo′im, toward the wilderness.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter13_verse19"></a><b><sup>19 </sup></b>Now there was not a smith to be found in all the land of Israel, because the Phi·lis′tines had said: “That the Hebrews may not make a sword or a spear.” <a id="chapter13_verse20"></a><b><sup>20 </sup></b>And all the Israelites would go down to the Phi·lis′tines to get each one his plowshare or his mattock or his ax or his sickle sharpened. <a id="chapter13_verse21"></a><b><sup>21 </sup></b>And the price for sharpening proved to be a pim for the plowshares and for the mattocks and for the three-toothed instruments and for the axes and for fixing fast the oxgoad. <a id="chapter13_verse22"></a><b><sup>22 </sup></b>And it happened on the day of battle that not a sword or a spear was found in the hand of any of the people that were with Saul and Jon′a·than; but there could be found one belonging to Saul and to Jon′a·than his son.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter13_verse23"></a><b><sup>23 </sup></b>Now an outpost of the Phi·lis′tines would sally forth to the ravine pass of Mich′mash.</p>
</body>
</html>
