<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="application/xhtml+xml; charset=utf-8" />
<title>1 Samuel 11</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/bi12.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
<p class="w_biblebookname">1 Samuel</p><p class="sb"><a id="chapter11"></a><a id="chapter11_verse1"></a><span class="w_ch"><b>11 </b></span>And Na′hash the Am′mon·ite proceeded to go up and camp against Ja′besh in Gil′e·ad. At that all the men of Ja′besh said to Na′hash: “Conclude a covenant with us that we may serve you.” <a id="chapter11_verse2"></a><b><sup>2 </sup></b>Then Na′hash the Am′mon·ite said to them: “On this condition I shall conclude it with <span class="smcap">YOU</span>, on the condition of boring out every right eye of <span class="smcap">YOURS</span>, and I must put it as a reproach upon all Israel.” <a id="chapter11_verse3"></a><b><sup>3 </sup></b>In turn the older men of Ja′besh said to him: “Give us seven days’ time, and we will send messengers into all the territory of Israel and, if there is no savior of us, we must then go out to you.” <a id="chapter11_verse4"></a><b><sup>4 </sup></b>In time the messengers came to Gib′e·ah of Saul and spoke the words in the ears of the people, and all the people began raising their voice and weeping.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter11_verse5"></a><b><sup>5 </sup></b>But here is Saul coming after the herd from the field, and Saul proceeded to say: “What is the matter with the people, that they should weep?” And they began relating to him the words of the men of Ja′besh. <a id="chapter11_verse6"></a><b><sup>6 </sup></b>And the spirit of God became operative upon Saul on his hearing these words, and his anger got very hot. <a id="chapter11_verse7"></a><b><sup>7 </sup></b>So he took a pair of bulls and cut them in pieces and sent these into all the territory of Israel by the hand of the messengers, saying: “Whoever of us is not going out as a follower of Saul and of Samuel, this is <a id="page376"></a>the way it will be done to his cattle!” And the dread of Jehovah began to fall upon the people so that they came out as one man. <a id="chapter11_verse8"></a><b><sup>8 </sup></b>Then he took the sum of them in Be′zek, and the sons of Israel amounted to three hundred thousand, and the men of Judah thirty thousand. <a id="chapter11_verse9"></a><b><sup>9 </sup></b>They now said to the messengers that had come: “This is what <span class="smcap">YOU </span>will say to the men of Ja′besh in Gil′e·ad, ‘Tomorrow salvation will take place for <span class="smcap">YOU </span>when the sun gets hot.’” With that the messengers came and told the men of Ja′besh, and they gave way to rejoicing. <a id="chapter11_verse10"></a><b><sup>10 </sup></b>Accordingly the men of Ja′besh said: “Tomorrow we shall come out to <span class="smcap">YOU </span>people, and <span class="smcap">YOU </span>must do to us in harmony with all that is good in <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>eyes.”</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter11_verse11"></a><b><sup>11 </sup></b>And it came about on the next day that Saul proceeded to put the people into three bands; and they made their way into the middle of the camp during the morning watch and went striking down the Am′mon·ites till the day grew hot. When there proved to be some that were left over, then they were sent scattering and there were not left over among them two together. <a id="chapter11_verse12"></a><b><sup>12 </sup></b>And the people began to say to Samuel: “Who is it saying, ‘Saul—is he to be king over us?’ G<span class="smcap">IVE </span>the men over, that we may put them to death.” <a id="chapter11_verse13"></a><b><sup>13 </sup></b>However, Saul said: “Not a man should be put to death on this day, because today Jehovah has performed salvation in Israel.”</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter11_verse14"></a><b><sup>14 </sup></b>Later Samuel said to the people: “Come and let us go to Gil′gal that we may there make the kingship anew.” <a id="chapter11_verse15"></a><b><sup>15 </sup></b>So all the people went to Gil′gal, and there they proceeded to make Saul king before Jehovah in Gil′gal. Then they rendered up communion sacrifices there before Jehovah, and there Saul and all the men of Israel continued rejoicing to a great degree.</p>
</body>
</html>
