<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="application/xhtml+xml; charset=utf-8" />
<title>2 Samuel 23</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/bi12.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
<p class="w_biblebookname">2 Samuel</p><p class="sb"><a id="chapter23"></a><a id="chapter23_verse1"></a><span class="w_ch"><b>23 </b></span>And these are the last words of David:</p>
<p class="sp">“The utterance of David the son of Jes′se,</p>
<p class="sz">And the utterance of the able-bodied man that was raised up on high,</p>
<p class="sp">The anointed of the God of Jacob,</p>
<p class="sz">And the pleasant one of the melodies of Israel.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter23_verse2"></a> <b><sup>2 </sup></b>The spirit of Jehovah it was that spoke by me,</p>
<p class="sz">And his word was upon my tongue.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter23_verse3"></a> <b><sup>3 </sup></b>The God of Israel said,</p>
<p class="sz">To me the Rock of Israel spoke,</p>
<p class="sp">‘When one ruling over mankind is righteous,</p>
<p class="sz">Ruling in the fear of God,</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter23_verse4"></a> <b><sup>4 </sup></b>Then it is as the light of morning, when the sun shines forth,</p>
<p class="sz">A morning without clouds.</p>
<p class="sz">From brightness, from rain, there is grass out of the earth.’</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter23_verse5"></a> <b><sup>5 </sup></b>For is not my household like that with God?</p>
<p class="sz">Because it is an indefinitely lasting covenant that he has assigned to me,</p>
<p class="sz">Nicely put in order in everything and secured.</p>
<p class="sp">Because it is all my salvation and all my delight,</p>
<p class="sz">Is that not why he will make it grow?</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter23_verse6"></a> <b><sup>6 </sup></b>But good-for-nothing persons are chased away, like thornbushes, all of them;</p>
<p class="sz">For it is not by the hand that they should be taken.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter23_verse7"></a> <b><sup>7 </sup></b>When a man touches them</p>
<p class="sz">He should be fully armed with iron and the shaft of a spear,</p>
<p class="sz">And with fire they will thoroughly be burned up.”</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter23_verse8"></a><b><sup>8 </sup></b>These are the names of the mighty men that belonged to David: Jo′sheb-bas·she′beth a Tah·che′mo·nite, the head of the three. He was brandishing his spear over eight hundred slain at one time. <a id="chapter23_verse9"></a><b><sup>9 </sup></b>Next to him El·e·a′zar the son of Do′do the son of A·ho′hi was among the three mighty men with David when they taunted the Phi·lis′tines. They had gathered themselves there for the battle, and so the men of Israel retreated. <a id="chapter23_verse10"></a><b><sup>10 </sup></b>He it was that rose up and kept striking down the Phi·lis′tines until his hand wearied and his hand kept cleaving to the sword, so that Jehovah performed a great salvation on that day; and as for the people, they returned behind him only to strip those struck down.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter23_verse11"></a><b><sup>11 </sup></b>And next to him was Sham′mah the son of A′gee the Har′a·rite. And the Phi·lis′tines proceeded to gather themselves to Le′hi, where there then happened to be a tract of the field full of lentils; and the people themselves fled because of the Phi·lis′tines. <a id="chapter23_verse12"></a><b><sup>12 </sup></b>But he took his stand in the middle of the tract and delivered it and kept striking down the Phi·lis′tines, <a id="page445"></a>so that Jehovah performed a great salvation.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter23_verse13"></a><b><sup>13 </sup></b>And three of the thirty head ones proceeded to go down and come at the harvest, to David at the cave of A·dul′lam; and a tent village of the Phi·lis′tines was encamped in the low plain of the Reph′a·im. <a id="chapter23_verse14"></a><b><sup>14 </sup></b>And David was then in the place hard to approach; and an outpost of the Phi·lis′tines was then in Beth′le·hem. <a id="chapter23_verse15"></a><b><sup>15 </sup></b>After a while David expressed his craving and said: “O that I might have a drink of the water from the cistern of Beth′le·hem that is at the gate!” <a id="chapter23_verse16"></a><b><sup>16 </sup></b>At that the three mighty men forced their way into the camp of the Phi·lis′tines and drew water from the cistern of Beth′le·hem that is at the gate and came carrying and bringing it to David; and he did not consent to drink it, but poured it out to Jehovah. <a id="chapter23_verse17"></a><b><sup>17 </sup></b>And he went on to say: “It is unthinkable on my part, O Jehovah, that I should do this! Shall I drink the blood of the men going at the risk of their souls?” And he did not consent to drink it.</p>
<p class="sb">These are the things the three mighty men did.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter23_verse18"></a><b><sup>18 </sup></b>As for A·bish′ai the brother of Jo′ab the son of Ze·ru′iah, he was the head of the thirty, and he was brandishing his spear over three hundred slain ones, and he had a reputation like the three. <a id="chapter23_verse19"></a><b><sup>19 </sup></b>Although he was distinguished even more than the rest of the thirty, and he came to be their chief, to the rank of the first three he did not come.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter23_verse20"></a><b><sup>20 </sup></b>As for Be·nai′ah the son of Je·hoi′a·da the son of a valiant man, who did many deeds in Kab′ze·el, he himself struck down the two sons of Ar′i·el of Mo′ab; and he himself descended and struck down a lion inside a waterpit on a day of snowfall. <a id="chapter23_verse21"></a><b><sup>21 </sup></b>And he it was that struck down the Egyptian man that was of extraordinary size. Though there was a spear in the hand of the Egyptian, yet he went on down to him with a rod and snatched the spear away from the Egyptian’s hand and killed him with his own spear. <a id="chapter23_verse22"></a><b><sup>22 </sup></b>These things Be·nai′ah the son of Je·hoi′a·da did; and he had a reputation like the three mighty men. <a id="chapter23_verse23"></a><b><sup>23 </sup></b>Although he was distinguished even more than the thirty, to the rank of the three he did not come; but David appointed him to his own bodyguard.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter23_verse24"></a><b><sup>24 </sup></b>As′a·hel the brother of Jo′ab was among the thirty; El·ha′nan the son of Do′do of Beth′le·hem, <a id="chapter23_verse25"></a><b><sup>25 </sup></b>Sham′mah the Ha′rod·ite, E·li′ka the Ha′rod·ite, <a id="chapter23_verse26"></a><b><sup>26 </sup></b>He′lez the Pal′tite, I′ra the son of Ik′kesh the Te·ko′ite, <a id="chapter23_verse27"></a><b><sup>27 </sup></b>Abi-e′zer the An′a·thoth·ite, Me·bun′nai the Hu′shath·ite, <a id="chapter23_verse28"></a><b><sup>28 </sup></b>Zal′mon the A·ho′hite, Ma′ha·rai the Ne·toph′a·thite, <a id="chapter23_verse29"></a><b><sup>29 </sup></b>He′leb the son of Ba′a·nah the Ne·toph′a·thite, It′tai the son of Ri′bai of Gib′e·ah of the sons of Benjamin, <a id="chapter23_verse30"></a><b><sup>30 </sup></b>Be·nai′ah a Pir′a·thon·ite, Hid′dai of the torrent valleys of Ga′ash, <a id="chapter23_verse31"></a><b><sup>31 </sup></b>A′bi-al′bon the Ar′bath·ite, Az′ma·veth the Bar-hu′mite, <a id="chapter23_verse32"></a><b><sup>32 </sup></b>E·li′ah·ba the Sha·al′bo·nite, the sons of Ja′shen, Jon′a·than, <a id="chapter23_verse33"></a><b><sup>33 </sup></b>Sham′mah the Har′a·rite, A·hi′am the son of Sha′rar the Har′a·rite, <a id="chapter23_verse34"></a><b><sup>34 </sup></b>E·liph′e·let the son of A·has′bai the son of the Ma·ac′a·thite, E·li′am the son of A·hith′o·phel the Gi′lon·ite, <a id="chapter23_verse35"></a><b><sup>35 </sup></b>Hez′ro the Car′mel·ite, Pa′a·rai the Ar′bite, <a id="chapter23_verse36"></a><b><sup>36 </sup></b>I′gal the son of Nathan of Zo′bah, Ba′ni the Gad′ite, <a id="chapter23_verse37"></a><b><sup>37 </sup></b>Ze′lek the Am′mon·ite, Na′ha·rai the Be·er′oth·ite, armor-bearers of Jo′ab the son of Ze·ru′iah, <a id="chapter23_verse38"></a><b><sup>38 </sup></b>I′ra the Ith′rite, Ga′reb the Ith′rite, <a id="chapter23_verse39"></a><b><sup>39 </sup></b>U·ri′ah the Hit′tite—thirty-seven in all.</p>
</body>
</html>
