<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="application/xhtml+xml; charset=utf-8" />
<title>2 Samuel 10</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/bi12.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
<p class="w_biblebookname">2 Samuel</p><p class="sb"><a id="chapter10"></a><a id="chapter10_verse1"></a><span class="w_ch"><b>10 </b></span>And it came about afterward that the king of the sons of Am′mon came to die, and Ha′nun his son began to reign instead of him. <a id="chapter10_verse2"></a><b><sup>2 </sup></b>At this David said: “I shall exercise loving-kindness toward Ha′nun the son of Na′hash, just as his father exercised loving-kindness toward me.” Accordingly David sent by means of his servants to comfort him over his father, and the servants of David proceeded to come into the land of the sons of Am′mon. <a id="chapter10_verse3"></a><b><sup>3 </sup></b>However, the princes of the sons of Am′mon said to Ha′nun their lord: “Is David honoring your father in your eyes in that he has sent to you comforters? Is it not for the sake of searching through the city and to spy it out and to overthrow it that David has sent his servants to you?” <a id="chapter10_verse4"></a><b><sup>4 </sup></b>So Ha′nun took the servants of David and shaved off half their beards and cut their garments in half to their buttocks and sent them away. <a id="chapter10_verse5"></a><b><sup>5 </sup></b>Later people reported it to David, and he at once sent to meet them, because the men had come to feeling very humiliated; and the king went on to say: “Dwell in Jer′i·cho until <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>beards grow abundantly. Then <span class="smcap">YOU </span>must return.”</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter10_verse6"></a><b><sup>6 </sup></b>In time the sons of Am′mon saw that they had become foul-smelling to David, and the sons of Am′mon proceeded to send and hire Syrians of Beth-re′hob and Syrians of Zo′bah, twenty thousand men on foot, and the king of Ma′a·cah, a thousand men, and Ish′tob, twelve thousand men. <a id="chapter10_verse7"></a><b><sup>7 </sup></b>When David heard of it, then he sent Jo′ab and all the army and the mighty men. <a id="chapter10_verse8"></a><b><sup>8 </sup></b>And the sons of Am′mon began to go out and draw up in battle formation at the entrance of the gate, also the Syrians of Zo′bah and of Re′hob, and Ish′tob and Ma′a·cah by themselves in the open field.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter10_verse9"></a><b><sup>9 </sup></b>When Jo′ab saw that the battle charges had come to be against him from the front and from the rear, he at once chose some of all the choice men in Israel and drew them up in formation to meet the Syrians. <a id="chapter10_verse10"></a><b><sup>10 </sup></b>And the rest of the people he <a id="page421"></a>gave into the hand of A·bish′ai his brother, that he might draw them up in formation to meet the sons of Am′mon. <a id="chapter10_verse11"></a><b><sup>11 </sup></b>And he went on to say: “If the Syrians become too strong for me, then you must serve as a salvation for me; but if the sons of Am′mon themselves become too strong for you, I must also come to save you. <a id="chapter10_verse12"></a><b><sup>12 </sup></b>Be strong, that we may show ourselves courageous in behalf of our people and in behalf of the cities of our God; and as for Jehovah, he will do what is good in his own eyes.”</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter10_verse13"></a><b><sup>13 </sup></b>Then Jo′ab and the people that were with him advanced to the battle against the Syrians, and they went fleeing from before him. <a id="chapter10_verse14"></a><b><sup>14 </sup></b>As for the sons of Am′mon, they saw that the Syrians had fled, and they took to flight from before A·bish′ai and hence came into the city. After that Jo′ab returned from the sons of Am′mon and came to Jerusalem.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter10_verse15"></a><b><sup>15 </sup></b>When the Syrians saw that they had been defeated before Israel, they proceeded to gather themselves together. <a id="chapter10_verse16"></a><b><sup>16 </sup></b>So Had·ad·e′zer sent and brought out the Syrians that were in the region of the River; and then they came to He′lam, with Sho′bach the chief of the army of Had·ad·e′zer before them.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter10_verse17"></a><b><sup>17 </sup></b>When the report was made to David, he immediately gathered all Israel and crossed the Jordan and came to He′lam. The Syrians now drew up in formation to meet David and began to fight against him. <a id="chapter10_verse18"></a><b><sup>18 </sup></b>And the Syrians took to flight from before Israel; and David got to kill of the Syrians seven hundred charioteers and forty thousand horsemen, and Sho′bach the chief of their army he struck down so that he died there. <a id="chapter10_verse19"></a><b><sup>19 </sup></b>When all the kings, the servants of Had·ad·e′zer, saw that they had been defeated before Israel, they promptly made peace with Israel and began to serve them; and the Syrians were afraid to try saving the sons of Am′mon anymore.</p>
</body>
</html>
