<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="application/xhtml+xml; charset=utf-8" />
<title>2 Samuel 9</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/bi12.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
<p class="w_biblebookname">2 Samuel</p><p class="sb"><a id="chapter9"></a><a id="chapter9_verse1"></a><span class="w_ch"><b>9 </b></span>And David proceeded to say: “Is there yet anyone that is left over of the house of Saul, that I may exercise loving-kindness toward him for the sake of Jon′a·than?” <a id="chapter9_verse2"></a><b><sup>2 </sup></b>Now the house of Saul had a servant whose name was Zi′ba. So they called him to David, and the king then said to him: “Are you Zi′ba?” to which he said: “I am your servant.” <a id="chapter9_verse3"></a><b><sup>3 </sup></b>And the king went on to say: “Is there nobody of the house of Saul anymore, that I may exercise toward him the loving-kindness of God?” At this Zi′ba said to the king: “There is yet a son of Jon′a·than, lame in the feet.” <a id="chapter9_verse4"></a><b><sup>4 </sup></b>Then the king said to him: “Where is he?” So Zi′ba said to the king: “Look! He is in the house of Ma′chir the son of Am′mi·el at Lo-de′bar.”</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter9_verse5"></a><b><sup>5 </sup></b>Immediately King David sent and took him from the house of Ma′chir the son of Am′mi·el at Lo-de′bar. <a id="chapter9_verse6"></a><b><sup>6 </sup></b>When Me·phib′o·sheth the son of Jon′a·than the son of Saul came in to David, he at once fell upon his face and prostrated himself. Then David said: “Me·phib′o·sheth!” to which he said: “Here is your servant.” <a id="chapter9_verse7"></a><b><sup>7 </sup></b>And David <a id="page420"></a>went on to say to him: “Do not be afraid, for without fail I shall exercise loving-kindness toward you for the sake of Jon′a·than your father; and I must return to you all the field of Saul your grandfather, and you yourself will eat bread at my table constantly.”</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter9_verse8"></a><b><sup>8 </sup></b>At that he prostrated himself and said: “What is your servant, that you have turned your face to the dead dog such as I am?” <a id="chapter9_verse9"></a><b><sup>9 </sup></b>The king now called Zi′ba, Saul’s attendant, and said to him: “Everything that had come to belong to Saul and to all his house I do give to the grandson of your master. <a id="chapter9_verse10"></a><b><sup>10 </sup></b>And you must cultivate the ground for him, you and your sons and your servants, and you must do the gathering in, and it must serve as food for those belonging to the grandson of your master, and they must eat; but Me·phib′o·sheth himself, the grandson of your master, will eat bread at my table constantly.”</p>
<p class="sb">Now Zi′ba had fifteen sons and twenty servants. <a id="chapter9_verse11"></a><b><sup>11 </sup></b>So Zi′ba said to the king: “In accord with all that my lord the king commands for his servant is the way that your servant will do; but Me·phib′o·sheth is eating at my table like one of the sons of the king.” <a id="chapter9_verse12"></a><b><sup>12 </sup></b>Now Me·phib′o·sheth had a young son whose name was Mi′ca, and all those dwelling in the house of Zi′ba were servants to Me·phib′o·sheth. <a id="chapter9_verse13"></a><b><sup>13 </sup></b>And Me·phib′o·sheth himself was dwelling in Jerusalem, for it was constantly at the table of the king that he was eating; and he was lame in both of his feet.</p>
</body>
</html>
