<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="application/xhtml+xml; charset=utf-8" />
<title>1 Kings 16</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/bi12.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
<p class="w_biblebookname">1 Kings</p><p class="sb"><a id="chapter16"></a><a id="chapter16_verse1"></a><span class="w_ch"><b>16 </b></span>The word of Jehovah now came to Je′hu the son of Ha·na′ni against Ba′a·sha, saying: <a id="chapter16_verse2"></a><b><sup>2 </sup></b>“Inasmuch as I raised you up out of the dust that I might constitute you leader over my people Israel, but you went walking in the way of Jer·o·bo′am and so caused my people Israel to sin by offending me with their sins, <a id="chapter16_verse3"></a><b><sup>3 </sup></b>here I am making a clean sweep after Ba′a·sha and after his house, and I shall certainly constitute his house like the house of Jer·o·bo′am the son of Ne′bat. <a id="chapter16_verse4"></a><b><sup>4 </sup></b>Anyone of Ba′a·sha that is dying in the city the dogs will eat; and anyone of his that is dying in the field the fowls of the heavens will eat.”</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter16_verse5"></a><b><sup>5 </sup></b>As for the rest of the affairs of Ba′a·sha and what he did and his mightiness, are they not written in the book of the affairs of the days of the kings of Israel? <a id="chapter16_verse6"></a><b><sup>6 </sup></b>Finally Ba′a·sha lay down with his forefathers and was buried in Tir′zah; and E′lah his son began to reign in place of him. <a id="chapter16_verse7"></a><b><sup>7 </sup></b>And also by means of Je′hu the son of Ha·na′ni the prophet, Jehovah’s word itself had come against Ba′a·sha and his house, both because of all the badness that he committed in the eyes of Jehovah by offending him with the work of his hands, that it might become like the house of Jer·o·bo′am, and because he struck him down.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter16_verse8"></a><b><sup>8 </sup></b>In the twenty-sixth year of A′sa the king of Judah, E′lah the son of Ba′a·sha became king over Israel in Tir′zah for two years. <a id="chapter16_verse9"></a><b><sup>9 </sup></b>And his servant Zim′ri the chief of half the chariots began to conspire against him, while he was in Tir′zah drinking himself drunk at the house of Ar′za, who was over the household in Tir′zah. <a id="chapter16_verse10"></a><b><sup>10 </sup></b>And Zim′ri proceeded to come in and strike him down and put him to death in the twenty-seventh year of A′sa the king of Judah, and he began to reign in place of him. <a id="chapter16_verse11"></a><b><sup>11 </sup></b>And it came about that when he began to reign, as soon as he sat down upon his throne, he struck down all the house of Ba′a·sha. He did not let anyone of his remain that urinates against a wall or his avengers of blood or his friends. <a id="chapter16_verse12"></a><b><sup>12 </sup></b>Thus Zim′ri annihilated the whole house of Ba′a·sha, according to the word of Jehovah that he had spoken against Ba′a·sha by means of Je′hu the prophet, <a id="chapter16_verse13"></a><b><sup>13 </sup></b>on account of all the sins of Ba′a·sha and the sins of E′lah his son with which they sinned and with which they caused Israel to sin by offending Jehovah the God of Israel with their vain idols. <a id="chapter16_verse14"></a><b><sup>14 </sup></b>As for the rest of the affairs of E′lah and all that he did, are they not written in the book of the affairs of the days of the kings of Israel?</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter16_verse15"></a><b><sup>15 </sup></b>In the twenty-seventh year of A′sa the king of Judah, Zim′ri became king for seven days in Tir′zah, while the people were encamping against Gib′be·thon, which belonged to the Phi·lis′tines. <a id="chapter16_verse16"></a><b><sup>16 </sup></b>In time the people that were encamped heard it said: “Zim′ri has conspired and also struck down the king.” So all Israel made Om′ri, the chief of the army, king over Israel on that day in the camp. <a id="chapter16_verse17"></a><b><sup>17 </sup></b>Om′ri and all Israel with him now went on up from Gib′be·thon and began to lay siege to Tir′zah. <a id="chapter16_verse18"></a><b><sup>18 </sup></b>And it came about that as soon as Zim′ri saw that the city had been captured, he then came into the dwelling tower of the king’s house and burned the king’s house over himself with fire, so that he died, <a id="chapter16_verse19"></a><b><sup>19 </sup></b>for the sins of his with which he had sinned by doing what was bad in the eyes <a id="page480"></a>of Jehovah by walking in the way of Jer·o·bo′am and in his sin which he did by causing Israel to sin. <a id="chapter16_verse20"></a><b><sup>20 </sup></b>As for the rest of the affairs of Zim′ri and his conspiracy with which he conspired, are they not written in the book of the affairs of the days of the kings of Israel?</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter16_verse21"></a><b><sup>21 </sup></b>It was then that the people of Israel began to divide themselves into two parts. There was one part of the people that became followers of Tib′ni the son of Gi′nath, to make him king, and the other part followers of Om′ri. <a id="chapter16_verse22"></a><b><sup>22 </sup></b>Finally the people that were following Om′ri overcame the people that were following Tib′ni the son of Gi′nath; so that Tib′ni met death, and Om′ri began to reign.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter16_verse23"></a><b><sup>23 </sup></b>In the thirty-first year of A′sa the king of Judah, Om′ri became king over Israel for twelve years. In Tir′zah he reigned six years. <a id="chapter16_verse24"></a><b><sup>24 </sup></b>And he proceeded to buy the mountain of Sa·mar′i·a from She′mer for two talents of silver, and began to build on the mountain and call the name of the city that he built by the name of She′mer the master of the mountain, Sa·mar′i·a. <a id="chapter16_verse25"></a><b><sup>25 </sup></b>And Om′ri kept doing what was bad in the eyes of Jehovah and came to do worse than all who were prior to him. <a id="chapter16_verse26"></a><b><sup>26 </sup></b>And he went walking in all the way of Jer·o·bo′am the son of Ne′bat and in his sin with which he caused Israel to sin by offending Jehovah the God of Israel with their vain idols. <a id="chapter16_verse27"></a><b><sup>27 </sup></b>As for the rest of the affairs of Om′ri, what he did and his mightiness with which he acted, are they not written in the book of the affairs of the days of the kings of Israel? <a id="chapter16_verse28"></a><b><sup>28 </sup></b>Finally Om′ri lay down with his forefathers and was buried in Sa·mar′i·a; and A′hab his son began to reign in place of him.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter16_verse29"></a><b><sup>29 </sup></b>And as for A′hab the son of Om′ri, he became king over Israel in the thirty-eighth year of A′sa the king of Judah; and A′hab the son of Om′ri continued to reign over Israel in Sa·mar′i·a twenty-two years. <a id="chapter16_verse30"></a><b><sup>30 </sup></b>And A′hab the son of Om′ri proceeded to do worse in the eyes of Jehovah than all those who were prior to him. <a id="chapter16_verse31"></a><b><sup>31 </sup></b>And it came about that, as if it were the most trivial thing for him to walk in the sins of Jer·o·bo′am the son of Ne′bat, he now took as wife Jez′e·bel the daughter of Eth·ba′al the king of the Si·do′ni·ans and began to go and serve Ba′al and to bow down to him. <a id="chapter16_verse32"></a><b><sup>32 </sup></b>Further, he set up an altar to Ba′al at the house of Ba′al that he built in Sa·mar′i·a. <a id="chapter16_verse33"></a><b><sup>33 </sup></b>And A′hab went on to make the sacred pole; and A′hab came to do more to offend Jehovah the God of Israel than all the kings of Israel that happened to be prior to him.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter16_verse34"></a><b><sup>34 </sup></b>In his days Hi′el the Beth′el·ite built Jer′i·cho. At the forfeit of A·bi′ram his firstborn he laid the foundation of it, and at the forfeit of Se′gub his youngest he put up its doors, according to Jehovah’s word that he spoke by means of Joshua the son of Nun.</p>
</body>
</html>
