<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="application/xhtml+xml; charset=utf-8" />
<title>1 Kings 15</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/bi12.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
<p class="w_biblebookname">1 Kings</p><p class="sb"><a id="chapter15"></a><a id="chapter15_verse1"></a><span class="w_ch"><b>15 </b></span>And in the eighteenth year of King Jer·o·bo′am the son of Ne′bat, A·bi′jam became king over Judah. <a id="chapter15_verse2"></a><b><sup>2 </sup></b>Three years he reigned in Jerusalem; and his mother’s name was Ma′a·cah the granddaughter of A·bish′a·lom. <a id="chapter15_verse3"></a><b><sup>3 </sup></b>And he went on walking in all the sins of his father that he did prior to him; and his heart did not prove to be complete with Jehovah his God, like the heart of David his forefather. <a id="chapter15_verse4"></a><b><sup>4 </sup></b>For, on account of David, Jehovah his God gave him a lamp in Jerusalem by raising his son up after him and keeping Jerusalem in existence, <a id="chapter15_verse5"></a><b><sup>5 </sup></b>because David did what was right in the eyes of Jehovah, and he did not turn aside from anything that He had commanded him all the days of his life, only in the matter of U·ri′ah the Hit′tite. <a id="chapter15_verse6"></a><b><sup>6 </sup></b>And warfare itself took place between Re·ho·bo′am and Jer·o·bo′am all the days of his life.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter15_verse7"></a><b><sup>7 </sup></b>As for the rest of the affairs of A·bi′jam and all that he did, are they not written in the book of the affairs of the days of the kings of Judah? There was warfare also that took place between A·bi′jam and Jer·o·bo′am. <a id="chapter15_verse8"></a><b><sup>8 </sup></b>Finally A·bi′jam lay down with his forefathers and they buried him in the City of David; and A′sa his son began to reign in place of him.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter15_verse9"></a><b><sup>9 </sup></b>In the twentieth year of Jer·o·bo′am the king of Israel, A′sa reigned as king of Judah. <a id="chapter15_verse10"></a><b><sup>10 </sup></b>And forty-one years he reigned in Jerusalem; and his grandmother’s name was Ma′a·cah the granddaughter of A·bish′a·lom. <a id="chapter15_verse11"></a><b><sup>11 </sup></b>And A′sa proceeded to do what was right in the eyes of Jehovah, like David his forefather. <a id="chapter15_verse12"></a><b><sup>12 </sup></b>Accordingly he had the male temple prostitutes pass out of the land and removed all the dungy idols that his forefathers had made. <a id="chapter15_verse13"></a><b><sup>13 </sup></b>As for even Ma′a·cah his grandmother, he went on to remove her from being lady, because she had made a horrible idol to the sacred pole; after which A′sa cut down her horrible idol and burned it at the torrent valley of Kid′ron. <a id="chapter15_verse14"></a><b><sup>14 </sup></b>And the high places he did not remove. Nevertheless, A′sa’s heart itself proved to be complete with Jehovah all his days. <a id="chapter15_verse15"></a><b><sup>15 </sup></b>And he began to bring in the things made holy by his father and the things made holy by himself into the house of Jehovah, silver and gold and articles.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="page478"></a><a id="chapter15_verse16"></a><b><sup>16 </sup></b>And warfare itself took place between A′sa and Ba′a·sha the king of Israel all their days. <a id="chapter15_verse17"></a><b><sup>17 </sup></b>So Ba′a·sha the king of Israel came up against Judah and began to build Ra′mah, to allow no one to go out or come in to A′sa the king of Judah. <a id="chapter15_verse18"></a><b><sup>18 </sup></b>At that A′sa took all the silver and the gold that were left in the treasures of the house of Jehovah and the treasures of the house of the king and put them in the hand of his servants; and King A′sa now sent them to Ben-ha′dad the son of Tab·rim′mon the son of He′zi·on, the king of Syria, who was dwelling in Damascus, saying: <a id="chapter15_verse19"></a><b><sup>19 </sup></b>“There is a covenant between me and you, between my father and your father. Here I have sent you a present of silver and gold. Come, do break your covenant with Ba′a·sha the king of Israel, that he may withdraw from me.” <a id="chapter15_verse20"></a><b><sup>20 </sup></b>Accordingly Ben-ha′dad listened to King A′sa and sent the chiefs of the military forces that were his against the cities of Israel and went striking down I′jon and Dan and A′bel-beth-ma′a·cah and all Chin′ne·reth, as far as all the land of Naph′ta·li. <a id="chapter15_verse21"></a><b><sup>21 </sup></b>And it came about that as soon as Ba′a·sha heard of it, he immediately quit building Ra′mah and continued dwelling in Tir′zah. <a id="chapter15_verse22"></a><b><sup>22 </sup></b>And King A′sa, for his part, summoned all Judah—there was none exempt—and they proceeded to carry the stones of Ra′mah and the timbers of it, with which Ba′a·sha had been building; and King A′sa began to build with them Ge′ba in Benjamin, and Miz′pah.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter15_verse23"></a><b><sup>23 </sup></b>As for the rest of all the affairs of A′sa and all his mightiness and all that he did and the cities that he built, are they not written in the book of the affairs of the days of the kings of Judah? Only at the time of his growing old he got diseased in his feet. <a id="chapter15_verse24"></a><b><sup>24 </sup></b>Finally A′sa lay down with his forefathers and was buried with his forefathers in the City of David his forefather; and Je·hosh′a·phat his son began to reign in place of him.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter15_verse25"></a><b><sup>25 </sup></b>As for Na′dab the son of Jer·o·bo′am, he became king over Israel in the second year of A′sa the king of Judah; and he continued to reign over Israel two years. <a id="chapter15_verse26"></a><b><sup>26 </sup></b>And he kept doing what was bad in the eyes of Jehovah and went on walking in the way of his father and in his sin with which he caused Israel to sin. <a id="chapter15_verse27"></a><b><sup>27 </sup></b>And Ba′a·sha the son of A·hi′jah of the house of Is′sa·char began to conspire against him; and Ba′a·sha got to strike him down at Gib′be·thon, which belonged to the Phi·lis′tines, while Na′dab and all Israel were besieging Gib′be·thon. <a id="chapter15_verse28"></a><b><sup>28 </sup></b>So Ba′a·sha put him to death in the third year of A′sa the king of Judah and began to reign in place of him. <a id="chapter15_verse29"></a><b><sup>29 </sup></b>And it came about that as soon as he became king, he struck down all the house of Jer·o·bo′am. He did not let anyone breathing remain of Jer·o·bo′am’s until he had annihilated them, according to Jehovah’s word that he had spoken by means of his servant A·hi′jah the Shi′lo·nite, <a id="chapter15_verse30"></a><b><sup>30 </sup></b>on account of the sins of Jer·o·bo′am with which he sinned and with which he caused Israel to sin and by his offensiveness with which he offended Jehovah the God of Israel. <a id="chapter15_verse31"></a><b><sup>31 </sup></b>As for the rest of the affairs of Na′dab and all that he did, are they not written in the book of the affairs of the days of the kings of Israel? <a id="chapter15_verse32"></a><b><sup>32 </sup></b>And warfare itself took place between A′sa and Ba′a·sha the king of Israel all their days.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter15_verse33"></a><b><sup>33 </sup></b>In the third year of A′sa the king of Judah, Ba′a·sha the son of A·hi′jah became king over all Israel in Tir′zah for twenty-four <a id="page479"></a>years. <a id="chapter15_verse34"></a><b><sup>34 </sup></b>And he kept doing what was bad in the eyes of Jehovah and went walking in the way of Jer·o·bo′am and in his sin with which he caused Israel to sin.</p>
</body>
</html>
