<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="application/xhtml+xml; charset=utf-8" />
<title>1 Kings 21</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/bi12.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
<p class="w_biblebookname">1 Kings</p><p class="sb"><a id="chapter21"></a><a id="chapter21_verse1"></a><span class="w_ch"><b>21 </b></span>And it came about after these things that there was a vineyard that happened to belong to Na′both the Jez′re·el·ite, which was in Jez′re·el, beside the palace of A′hab the king of Sa·mar′i·a. <a id="chapter21_verse2"></a><b><sup>2 </sup></b>So A′hab spoke to Na′both, saying: “Do give me your vineyard, that it may serve as a garden of vegetables to me, for it is close by my house; and let me give you in place of it a vineyard better than it. Or if it is good in your eyes, I will give you money as the price of this.” <a id="chapter21_verse3"></a><b><sup>3 </sup></b>But Na′both said to A′hab: “It is unthinkable on my part, from Jehovah’s standpoint, for me to give the hereditary possession of my forefathers to you.” <a id="chapter21_verse4"></a><b><sup>4 </sup></b>Consequently A′hab came into his house, sullen and dejected over the word that Na′both the Jez′re·el·ite had spoken to him, when he said: “I shall not give you the hereditary possession of my forefathers.” Then he lay down upon his couch and kept his face turned, and he did not eat bread.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter21_verse5"></a><b><sup>5 </sup></b>Finally Jez′e·bel his wife came in to him and spoke to him: “Why is it that your spirit is sad and you are not eating bread?” <a id="chapter21_verse6"></a><b><sup>6 </sup></b>At that he spoke to her: “Because I proceeded to speak to Na′both the Jez′re·el·ite and say to him, ‘Do give me your vineyard for money. Or, if you prefer, let me give you another vineyard in place of it.’ But he said, ‘I shall not give you my vineyard.’” <a id="chapter21_verse7"></a><b><sup>7 </sup></b>Then Jez′e·bel his wife said to him: “Is it you that now exercise the kingship over Israel? Rise up, eat bread and let your heart be merry. I myself shall give you the <a id="page489"></a>vineyard of Na′both the Jez′re·el·ite.” <a id="chapter21_verse8"></a><b><sup>8 </sup></b>Accordingly she wrote letters in A′hab’s name and sealed them with his seal, and sent the letters to the older men and the nobles that were in his city dwelling with Na′both. <a id="chapter21_verse9"></a><b><sup>9 </sup></b>But she wrote in the letters, saying: “Proclaim a fast, and <span class="smcap">HAVE </span>Na′both sit at the head of the people. <a id="chapter21_verse10"></a><b><sup>10 </sup></b>And <span class="smcap">MAKE </span>two men, good-for-nothing fellows, sit in front of him, and let them bear witness against him, saying, ‘You have cursed God and the king!’ And <span class="smcap">BRING </span>him out and stone him that he may die.”</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter21_verse11"></a><b><sup>11 </sup></b>So the men of his city, the older men and the nobles that were dwelling in his city, did just as Jez′e·bel had sent to them, just as it was written in the letters that she had sent to them. <a id="chapter21_verse12"></a><b><sup>12 </sup></b>They proclaimed a fast and had Na′both sit at the head of the people. <a id="chapter21_verse13"></a><b><sup>13 </sup></b>Then two of the men, good-for-nothing fellows, came in and sat down in front of him; and the good-for-nothing men began to bear witness against him, that is, Na′both, in front of the people, saying: “Na′both has cursed God and the king!” After that they brought him out to the outskirts of the city and stoned him with stones, so that he died. <a id="chapter21_verse14"></a><b><sup>14 </sup></b>They now sent to Jez′e·bel, saying: “Na′both has been stoned so that he is dead.”</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter21_verse15"></a><b><sup>15 </sup></b>And it came about that, as soon as Jez′e·bel heard that Na′both had been stoned so that he died, Jez′e·bel immediately said to A′hab: “Rise up, take possession of the vineyard of Na′both the Jez′re·el·ite, which he refused to give you for money; for Na′both is no longer alive, but dead.” <a id="chapter21_verse16"></a><b><sup>16 </sup></b>And it came about that, as soon as A′hab heard that Na′both was dead, A′hab at once rose up to go down to the vineyard of Na′both the Jez′re·el·ite, to take possession of it.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter21_verse17"></a><b><sup>17 </sup></b>And Jehovah’s word came to E·li′jah the Tish′bite, saying: <a id="chapter21_verse18"></a><b><sup>18 </sup></b>“Rise up, go down to meet A′hab the king of Israel, who is in Sa·mar′i·a. There he is in the vineyard of Na′both, where he has gone down to take possession of it. <a id="chapter21_verse19"></a><b><sup>19 </sup></b>And you must speak to him, saying, ‘This is what Jehovah has said: “Have you murdered and also taken possession?”’ And you must speak to him, saying, ‘This is what Jehovah has said: “In the place where the dogs licked up the blood of Na′both, the dogs will lick up your blood, even yours.”’”</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter21_verse20"></a><b><sup>20 </sup></b>And A′hab proceeded to say to E·li′jah: “Have you found me, O enemy of mine?” to which he said: “I have found you. ‘For the reason that you have sold yourself to do what is bad in the eyes of Jehovah, <a id="chapter21_verse21"></a><b><sup>21 </sup></b>here I am bringing calamity upon you; and I shall certainly make a clean sweep after you and cut off from A′hab anyone urinating against a wall and the helpless and worthless one in Israel. <a id="chapter21_verse22"></a><b><sup>22 </sup></b>And I shall certainly constitute your house like the house of Jer·o·bo′am the son of Ne′bat and like the house of Ba′a·sha the son of A·hi′jah, for the offense with which you have offended and then caused Israel to sin.’ <a id="chapter21_verse23"></a><b><sup>23 </sup></b>And also as regards Jez′e·bel Jehovah has spoken, saying, ‘The very dogs will eat up Jez′e·bel in the plot of land of Jez′re·el. <a id="chapter21_verse24"></a><b><sup>24 </sup></b>Anyone of A′hab’s that is dying in the city the dogs will eat up; and anyone dying in the field the fowls of the heavens will eat up. <a id="chapter21_verse25"></a><b><sup>25 </sup></b>Without exception no one has proved to be like A′hab, who sold himself to do what was bad in the eyes of Jehovah, whom Jez′e·bel his wife egged on. <a id="chapter21_verse26"></a><b><sup>26 </sup></b>And he went acting very detestably by going after <a id="page490"></a>the dungy idols, the same as all that the Am′or·ites had done, whom Jehovah drove out from before the sons of Israel.’”</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter21_verse27"></a><b><sup>27 </sup></b>And it came about that as soon as A′hab heard these words, he proceeded to rip his garments apart and to put sackcloth upon his flesh; and he went on a fast and kept lying down in sackcloth and walking despondently. <a id="chapter21_verse28"></a><b><sup>28 </sup></b>And Jehovah’s word came to E·li′jah the Tish′bite, saying: <a id="chapter21_verse29"></a><b><sup>29 </sup></b>“Have you seen how A′hab has humbled himself on my account? For the reason that he has humbled himself because of me, I shall not bring the calamity in his own days. In the days of his son I shall bring the calamity upon his house.”</p>
</body>
</html>
