<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="application/xhtml+xml; charset=utf-8" />
<title>2 Kings 13</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/bi12.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
<p class="w_biblebookname">2 Kings</p><p class="sb"><a id="chapter13"></a><a id="chapter13_verse1"></a><span class="w_ch"><b>13 </b></span>In the twenty-third year of Je·ho′ash the son of A·ha·zi′ah the king of Judah, Je·ho′a·haz the son of Je′hu became king over Israel in Sa·mar′i·a for seventeen years. <a id="chapter13_verse2"></a><b><sup>2 </sup></b>And he continued to do what was bad in Jehovah’s eyes and went walking in pursuit of the sin of Jer·o·bo′am the son of Ne′bat, with which he caused Israel to sin. He did not turn aside from it. <a id="chapter13_verse3"></a><b><sup>3 </sup></b>And Jehovah’s anger became hot against Israel, so that he gave them into the hand of Haz′a·el the king of Syria and into the hand of Ben-ha′dad the son of Haz′a·el all their days.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter13_verse4"></a><b><sup>4 </sup></b>In time Je·ho′a·haz softened the face of Jehovah, so that Jehovah listened to him; for he had seen the oppression upon Israel, because the king of Syria had oppressed them. <a id="chapter13_verse5"></a><b><sup>5 </sup></b>Consequently Jehovah gave Israel a savior, so that they came out from under the hand of Syria, and the sons of Israel continued to dwell in their homes as formerly. <a id="chapter13_verse6"></a><b><sup>6 </sup></b>(Only they did not depart from the sin of the house of Jer·o·bo′am, with which he caused Israel to sin. In it he walked; and even the sacred pole itself stood in Sa·mar′i·a.) <a id="chapter13_verse7"></a><b><sup>7 </sup></b>For he had not left to Je·ho′a·haz any people but fifty horsemen and ten chariots and ten thousand men on foot, because the king of Syria had destroyed them, that he might make them like the dust at threshing.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter13_verse8"></a><b><sup>8 </sup></b>As for the rest of the affairs of Je·ho′a·haz and all that he did and his mightiness, are they not written in the book of the affairs of the days of the kings of Israel? <a id="chapter13_verse9"></a><b><sup>9 </sup></b>Finally Je·ho′a·haz lay down with his forefathers, and they buried him in Sa·mar′i·a; and Je·ho′ash his son began to reign in place of him.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter13_verse10"></a><b><sup>10 </sup></b>In the thirty-seventh year of Je·ho′ash the king of Judah, Je·ho′ash the son of Je·ho′a·haz became king over Israel in Sa·mar′i·a for sixteen years. <a id="chapter13_verse11"></a><b><sup>11 </sup></b>And he continued to do what was bad in Jehovah’s eyes. He did not depart from all the sins of Jer·o·bo′am the son of Ne′bat, with which he made Israel sin. In them he walked.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter13_verse12"></a><b><sup>12 </sup></b>As for the rest of the affairs of Je·ho′ash and all that he did and his mightiness and how he fought against Am·a·zi′ah the king of Judah, are they not written in the book of the affairs of the days of the kings of Israel? <a id="chapter13_verse13"></a><b><sup>13 </sup></b>Finally Je·ho′ash lay down with his forefathers, and Jer·o·bo′am himself sat upon his throne. In turn Je·ho′ash was buried in Sa·mar′i·a with the kings of Israel.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="page514"></a><a id="chapter13_verse14"></a><b><sup>14 </sup></b>As regards E·li′sha, he had taken sick with the sickness with which he was to die. So Je·ho′ash the king of Israel came down to him and began to weep over his face and say: “My father, my father, the war chariot of Israel and his horsemen!” <a id="chapter13_verse15"></a><b><sup>15 </sup></b>And E·li′sha proceeded to say to him: “Take a bow and arrows.” So he took to himself a bow and arrows. <a id="chapter13_verse16"></a><b><sup>16 </sup></b>And he went on to say to the king of Israel: “Put your hand to the bow.” Accordingly he put his hand to it, after which E·li′sha laid his hands upon the hands of the king. <a id="chapter13_verse17"></a><b><sup>17 </sup></b>Then he said: “Open the window to the east.” So he opened it. Finally E·li′sha said: “Shoot!” So he shot. He now said: “Jehovah’s arrow of salvation, even the arrow of salvation against Syria! And you will certainly strike down Syria at A′phek to the finishing point.”</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter13_verse18"></a><b><sup>18 </sup></b>And he went on to say: “Take the arrows.” At that he took them. Then he said to the king of Israel: “Strike on the earth.” So he struck three times and stopped. <a id="chapter13_verse19"></a><b><sup>19 </sup></b>And the man of the true God grew indignant at him; hence he said: “It was meant to strike five or six times! In that case you would certainly be striking down Syria to the finishing point, but now it is three times that you will strike down Syria.”</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter13_verse20"></a><b><sup>20 </sup></b>After that E·li′sha died and they buried him. And there were marauding bands of the Mo′ab·ites that regularly came into the land at the coming in of the year. <a id="chapter13_verse21"></a><b><sup>21 </sup></b>And it came about that as they were burying a man, why, here they saw the marauding band. At once they threw the man into E·li′sha’s burial place and went off. When the man touched the bones of E·li′sha, he immediately came to life and stood upon his feet.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter13_verse22"></a><b><sup>22 </sup></b>As for Haz′a·el the king of Syria, he oppressed Israel all the days of Je·ho′a·haz. <a id="chapter13_verse23"></a><b><sup>23 </sup></b>However, Jehovah showed them favor and had mercy upon them and turned to them for the sake of his covenant with Abraham, Isaac and Jacob; and he did not want to bring them to ruin, and he did not cast them away from before his face until now. <a id="chapter13_verse24"></a><b><sup>24 </sup></b>Finally Haz′a·el the king of Syria died, and Ben-ha′dad his son began to reign in place of him. <a id="chapter13_verse25"></a><b><sup>25 </sup></b>And Je·ho′ash the son of Je·ho′a·haz proceeded to take back again from the hand of Ben-ha′dad the son of Haz′a·el the cities that he had taken from the hand of Je·ho′a·haz his father in war. Three times Je·ho′ash struck him down, and he got to recover the cities of Israel.</p>
</body>
</html>
