<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="application/xhtml+xml; charset=utf-8" />
<title>2 Kings 15</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/bi12.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
<p class="w_biblebookname">2 Kings</p><p class="sb"><a id="chapter15"></a><a id="chapter15_verse1"></a><span class="w_ch"><b>15 </b></span>In the twenty-seventh year of Jer·o·bo′am the king of Israel, Az·a·ri′ah the son of Am·a·zi′ah the king of Judah became king. <a id="chapter15_verse2"></a><b><sup>2 </sup></b>Sixteen years old he happened to be when he began to reign, and for fifty-two years he reigned in Jerusalem. And his mother’s name was Je·co·li′ah of Jerusalem. <a id="chapter15_verse3"></a><b><sup>3 </sup></b>And he continued to do what was upright in Jehovah’s eyes, according to all that Am·a·zi′ah his father had done. <a id="chapter15_verse4"></a><b><sup>4 </sup></b>It was only that the high places did not disappear. The people were still sacrificing and making sacrificial smoke on the high places. <a id="chapter15_verse5"></a><b><sup>5 </sup></b>Finally Jehovah plagued the king, and he continued to be a leper until the day of his death, and he kept dwelling in his house exempt from duties, while Jo′tham the king’s son was over the house, judging the people of the land. <a id="chapter15_verse6"></a><b><sup>6 </sup></b>As for the rest of the affairs of Az·a·ri′ah and all that he did, are they not written in the book of the affairs of the days of the kings of Judah? <a id="chapter15_verse7"></a><b><sup>7 </sup></b>At length Az·a·ri′ah lay down with his forefathers, and they buried him with his forefathers in the City of David; and Jo′tham his son began to reign in place of him.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter15_verse8"></a><b><sup>8 </sup></b>In the thirty-eighth year of Az·a·ri′ah the king of Judah, Zech·a·ri′ah the son of Jer·o·bo′am became king over Israel in Sa·mar′i·a for six months. <a id="chapter15_verse9"></a><b><sup>9 </sup></b>And he went on doing what was bad in Jehovah’s eyes, just as his forefathers had done. He did not depart from the sins of Jer·o·bo′am the son of Ne′bat, with which he caused Israel to sin. <a id="chapter15_verse10"></a><b><sup>10 </sup></b>Then Shal′lum the son of Ja′besh conspired against him and struck him down at Ib′le·am and put him to death and began to reign in place of him. <a id="chapter15_verse11"></a><b><sup>11 </sup></b>As for the rest of the affairs of Zech·a·ri′ah, there they are written in the book of the affairs of the days of the kings of Israel. <a id="chapter15_verse12"></a><b><sup>12 </sup></b>That was Jehovah’s word that he had spoken to Je′hu, saying: “Sons themselves to the fourth generation will sit for you upon the throne of Israel.” And it came to be that way.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter15_verse13"></a><b><sup>13 </sup></b>As for Shal′lum the son of Ja′besh, he became king in the thirty-ninth year of Uz·zi′ah the king of Judah, and he continued to reign for a full lunar month in Sa·mar′i·a. <a id="chapter15_verse14"></a><b><sup>14 </sup></b>Then Men′a·hem the son of Ga′di came up from Tir′zah and came to Sa·mar′i·a and struck down Shal′lum the son of Ja′besh in Sa·mar′i·a and put him to death; and he began to reign in place of him. <a id="chapter15_verse15"></a><b><sup>15 </sup></b>As for the rest of the affairs of Shal′lum and his conspiracy <a id="page517"></a>with which he conspired, there they are written in the book of the affairs of the days of the kings of Israel. <a id="chapter15_verse16"></a><b><sup>16 </sup></b>It was then that Men′a·hem proceeded to strike down Tiph′sah and all that was in it and its territory out from Tir′zah, because it did not open up, and he went striking it down. All its pregnant women he ripped up.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter15_verse17"></a><b><sup>17 </sup></b>In the thirty-ninth year of Az·a·ri′ah the king of Judah, Men′a·hem the son of Ga′di became king over Israel for ten years in Sa·mar′i·a. <a id="chapter15_verse18"></a><b><sup>18 </sup></b>And he continued to do what was bad in Jehovah’s eyes. He did not depart from all the sins of Jer·o·bo′am the son of Ne′bat, with which he caused Israel to sin, all his days. <a id="chapter15_verse19"></a><b><sup>19 </sup></b>Pul the king of As·syr′i·a came into the land. Consequently Men′a·hem gave Pul a thousand talents of silver, that his hands might prove to be with him to strengthen the kingdom in his own hand. <a id="chapter15_verse20"></a><b><sup>20 </sup></b>So Men′a·hem brought forth the silver at the expense of Israel, at the expense of all the valiant, mighty men, to give to the king of As·syr′i·a fifty silver shekels for each man. At that the king of As·syr′i·a turned back, and he did not stay there in the land. <a id="chapter15_verse21"></a><b><sup>21 </sup></b>As for the rest of the affairs of Men′a·hem and all that he did, are they not written in the book of the affairs of the days of the kings of Israel? <a id="chapter15_verse22"></a><b><sup>22 </sup></b>Finally Men′a·hem lay down with his forefathers, and Pek·a·hi′ah his son began to reign in place of him.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter15_verse23"></a><b><sup>23 </sup></b>In the fiftieth year of Az·a·ri′ah the king of Judah, Pek·a·hi′ah the son of Men′a·hem became king over Israel in Sa·mar′i·a for two years. <a id="chapter15_verse24"></a><b><sup>24 </sup></b>And he continued to do what was bad in Jehovah’s eyes. He did not depart from the sins of Jer·o·bo′am the son of Ne′bat, with which he caused Israel to sin. <a id="chapter15_verse25"></a><b><sup>25 </sup></b>Then Pe′kah the son of Rem·a·li′ah his adjutant conspired against him and struck him down in Sa·mar′i·a in the dwelling tower of the king’s house with Ar′gob and A·ri′eh, and with him there were fifty men of the sons of Gil′e·ad. So he put him to death and began to reign in place of him. <a id="chapter15_verse26"></a><b><sup>26 </sup></b>As for the rest of the affairs of Pek·a·hi′ah and all that he did, there they are written in the book of the affairs of the days of the kings of Israel.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter15_verse27"></a><b><sup>27 </sup></b>In the fifty-second year of Az·a·ri′ah the king of Judah, Pe′kah the son of Rem·a·li′ah became king over Israel in Sa·mar′i·a for twenty years. <a id="chapter15_verse28"></a><b><sup>28 </sup></b>And he continued to do what was bad in Jehovah’s eyes. He did not depart from the sins of Jer·o·bo′am the son of Ne′bat, with which he caused Israel to sin. <a id="chapter15_verse29"></a><b><sup>29 </sup></b>In the days of Pe′kah the king of Israel, Tig′lath-pil·e′ser the king of As·syr′i·a came in and proceeded to take I′jon and A′bel-beth-ma′a·cah and Ja·no′ah and Ke′desh and Ha′zor and Gil′e·ad and Gal′i·lee, all the land of Naph′ta·li, and to carry them into exile in As·syr′i·a. <a id="chapter15_verse30"></a><b><sup>30 </sup></b>Finally Ho·she′a the son of E′lah formed a conspiracy against Pe′kah the son of Rem·a·li′ah and struck him and put him to death; and he began to reign in place of him in the twentieth year of Jo′tham the son of Uz·zi′ah. <a id="chapter15_verse31"></a><b><sup>31 </sup></b>As for the rest of the affairs of Pe′kah and all that he did, there they are written in the book of the affairs of the days of the kings of Israel.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter15_verse32"></a><b><sup>32 </sup></b>In the second year of Pe′kah the son of Rem·a·li′ah the king of Israel, Jo′tham the son of Uz·zi′ah the king of Judah became king. <a id="chapter15_verse33"></a><b><sup>33 </sup></b>Twenty-five years old he happened to be when he began to reign, and for sixteen years he reigned in Jerusalem. And his mother’s name was Je·ru′sha the daughter of Za′dok. <a id="chapter15_verse34"></a><b><sup>34 </sup></b>And he continued <a id="page518"></a>to do what was right in Jehovah’s eyes. According to all that Uz·zi′ah his father had done, he did. <a id="chapter15_verse35"></a><b><sup>35 </sup></b>It was only that the high places did not disappear. The people were still sacrificing and making sacrificial smoke on the high places. He it was that built the upper gate of the house of Jehovah. <a id="chapter15_verse36"></a><b><sup>36 </sup></b>As for the rest of the affairs of Jo′tham, what he did, are they not written in the book of the affairs of the days of the kings of Judah? <a id="chapter15_verse37"></a><b><sup>37 </sup></b>In those days Jehovah started to send against Judah Re′zin the king of Syria and Pe′kah the son of Rem·a·li′ah. <a id="chapter15_verse38"></a><b><sup>38 </sup></b>Finally Jo′tham lay down with his forefathers and was buried with his forefathers in the City of David his forefather; and A′haz his son began to reign in place of him.</p>
</body>
</html>
