<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="application/xhtml+xml; charset=utf-8" />
<title>1 Chronicles 20</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/bi12.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
<p class="w_biblebookname">1 Chronicles</p><p class="sb"><a id="chapter20"></a><a id="chapter20_verse1"></a><span class="w_ch"><b>20 </b></span>And it came about at the time of the year’s return, at the time that kings sally forth, that Jo′ab proceeded to lead the combat force of the army and lay the land of the sons of Am′mon in ruin and to come and besiege Rab′bah, while David was dwelling in Jerusalem; and Jo′ab went on to strike Rab′bah and throw it down. <a id="chapter20_verse2"></a><b><sup>2 </sup></b>But David took the crown of Mal′cam off its head, and found it to be a talent of gold in weight, and in it there were precious stones; and it came to be on David’s head. And the spoil of the city that he brought out was very much. <a id="chapter20_verse3"></a><b><sup>3 </sup></b>And the people that were in it he brought out, and he kept them employed at sawing stones and at sharp instruments of iron and at axes; and that was the way David proceeded to do to all the cities of the sons of Am′mon. Finally David and all the people returned to Jerusalem.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter20_verse4"></a><b><sup>4 </sup></b>And it came about after this that war began breaking out at Ge′zer with the Phi·lis′tines. It was then that Sib′be·cai the Hu′shath·ite struck down Sip′pai of those born of the Reph′a·im, so that they were subdued.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="page564"></a><a id="chapter20_verse5"></a><b><sup>5 </sup></b>And there came to be war again with the Phi·lis′tines; and El·ha′nan the son of Ja′ir got to strike down Lah′mi the brother of Go·li′ath the Git′tite, the shaft of whose spear was like the beam of loom workers.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter20_verse6"></a><b><sup>6 </sup></b>And there came to be war again at Gath, when there happened to be a man of extraordinary size whose fingers and toes were in sixes, twenty-four; and he, too, had been born to the Reph′a·im. <a id="chapter20_verse7"></a><b><sup>7 </sup></b>And he kept taunting Israel. Finally Jon′a·than the son of Shim′e·a the brother of David struck him down.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter20_verse8"></a><b><sup>8 </sup></b>These were the ones that had been born to the Reph′a·im in Gath; and they came to fall by the hand of David and by the hand of his servants.</p>
</body>
</html>
