<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="application/xhtml+xml; charset=utf-8" />
<title>1 Chronicles 23</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/bi12.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
<p class="w_biblebookname">1 Chronicles</p><p class="sb"><a id="chapter23"></a><a id="chapter23_verse1"></a><span class="w_ch"><b>23 </b></span>And David himself had grown old and satisfied with days, and so he made Sol′o·mon his son king over Israel. <a id="chapter23_verse2"></a><b><sup>2 </sup></b>And he proceeded to gather all the princes of Israel and the priests and the Levites. <a id="chapter23_verse3"></a><b><sup>3 </sup></b>Accordingly the Levites were numbered from the age of thirty years upward; and their number, head by head of them, able-bodied man by able-bodied man, came to be thirty-eight thousand. <a id="page567"></a><a id="chapter23_verse4"></a><b><sup>4 </sup></b>Of these for acting as supervisors over the work of the house of Jehovah there were twenty-four thousand; and as officers and judges six thousand; <a id="chapter23_verse5"></a><b><sup>5 </sup></b>and four thousand gatekeepers and four thousand givers of praise to Jehovah on the instruments that David said “I have made for giving praise.”</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter23_verse6"></a><b><sup>6 </sup></b>Then David distributed them in divisions to the sons of Le′vi, to Ger′shon, Ko′hath and Me·rar′i. <a id="chapter23_verse7"></a><b><sup>7 </sup></b>To the Ger′shon·ites, La′dan and Shim′e·i. <a id="chapter23_verse8"></a><b><sup>8 </sup></b>The sons of La′dan were Je·hi′el the headman and Ze′tham and Joel, three. <a id="chapter23_verse9"></a><b><sup>9 </sup></b>The sons of Shim′e·i were She·lo′moth and Ha′zi·el and Ha′ran, three. These were the heads of the fathers for La′dan. <a id="chapter23_verse10"></a><b><sup>10 </sup></b>And the sons of Shim′e·i were Ja′hath, Zi′na and Je′ush and Be·ri′ah. These four were the sons of Shim′e·i. <a id="chapter23_verse11"></a><b><sup>11 </sup></b>And Ja′hath came to be the head, and Zi′zah the second. As for Je′ush and Be·ri′ah, they did not have many sons; so they became a paternal house for one official class.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter23_verse12"></a><b><sup>12 </sup></b>The sons of Ko′hath were Am′ram, Iz′har, He′bron and Uz′zi·el, four. <a id="chapter23_verse13"></a><b><sup>13 </sup></b>The sons of Am′ram were Aaron and Moses. But Aaron was separated that he might sanctify the Most Holy, he and his sons to time indefinite, to make sacrificial smoke before Jehovah, to minister to him and to pronounce blessing in his name to time indefinite. <a id="chapter23_verse14"></a><b><sup>14 </sup></b>As for Moses the man of the true God, his sons themselves continued to be called among the tribe of the Levites. <a id="chapter23_verse15"></a><b><sup>15 </sup></b>The sons of Moses were Ger′shom and E·li·e′zer. <a id="chapter23_verse16"></a><b><sup>16 </sup></b>The sons of Ger′shom were Sheb′u·el the head. <a id="chapter23_verse17"></a><b><sup>17 </sup></b>And the sons of E·li·e′zer came to be Re·ha·bi′ah the head; and E·li·e′zer did not come to have other sons, but the sons of Re·ha·bi′ah did themselves become exceedingly many. <a id="chapter23_verse18"></a><b><sup>18 </sup></b>The sons of Iz′har were She·lo′mith the headman. <a id="chapter23_verse19"></a><b><sup>19 </sup></b>The sons of He′bron were Je·ri′ah the head, Am·a·ri′ah the second, Ja·ha·zi′el the third and Jek·a·me′am the fourth. <a id="chapter23_verse20"></a><b><sup>20 </sup></b>The sons of Uz′zi·el were Mi′cah the head and Is·shi′ah the second.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter23_verse21"></a><b><sup>21 </sup></b>The sons of Me·rar′i were Mah′li and Mu′shi. The sons of Mah′li were El·e·a′zar and Kish. <a id="chapter23_verse22"></a><b><sup>22 </sup></b>But El·e·a′zar died; and he had come to have, not sons, but daughters. So the sons of Kish their brothers took them as wives. <a id="chapter23_verse23"></a><b><sup>23 </sup></b>The sons of Mu′shi were Mah′li and E′der and Jer′e·moth, three.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter23_verse24"></a><b><sup>24 </sup></b>These were the sons of Le′vi by the house of their fathers, the heads of the fathers, by their commissioned ones, in the number of the names, head by head of them, the doers of the work for the service of the house of Jehovah, from the age of twenty years upward. <a id="chapter23_verse25"></a><b><sup>25 </sup></b>For David had said: “Jehovah the God of Israel has given rest to his people, and he will reside in Jerusalem to time indefinite. <a id="chapter23_verse26"></a><b><sup>26 </sup></b>And also the Levites will not have to carry the tabernacle or any of its utensils for its service.” <a id="chapter23_verse27"></a><b><sup>27 </sup></b>For by the last words of David these were the number of the sons of Le′vi from the age of twenty years upward. <a id="chapter23_verse28"></a><b><sup>28 </sup></b>For their function was at the disposition of the sons of Aaron for the service of the house of Jehovah over the courtyards and over the dining rooms and over the purification of every holy thing and the work of the service of the house of the true God, <a id="chapter23_verse29"></a><b><sup>29 </sup></b>even for the layer bread and for the fine flour for the grain offering and for the wafers of unfermented bread and for the griddle cakes and for the mixed dough and for all measures of quantity and size; <a id="chapter23_verse30"></a><b><sup>30 </sup></b>and for standing morning by morning <a id="page568"></a>to thank and praise Jehovah, and likewise at evening; <a id="chapter23_verse31"></a><b><sup>31 </sup></b>and for every offering up of the burnt sacrifices to Jehovah at the sabbaths, at the new moons and at the festival seasons, by number according to the rule concerning them, constantly before Jehovah. <a id="chapter23_verse32"></a><b><sup>32 </sup></b>And they took care of the guarding of the tent of meeting and the guarding of the holy place and the guarding of the sons of Aaron their brothers for the service of the house of Jehovah.</p>
</body>
</html>
