<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="application/xhtml+xml; charset=utf-8" />
<title>1 Chronicles 18</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/bi12.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
<p class="w_biblebookname">1 Chronicles</p><p class="sb"><a id="chapter18"></a><a id="chapter18_verse1"></a><span class="w_ch"><b>18 </b></span>And it came about afterward that David proceeded to strike down the Phi·lis′tines and subdue them and take Gath and its dependent towns out of the hand of the Phi·lis′tines. <a id="chapter18_verse2"></a><b><sup>2 </sup></b>Then he struck Mo′ab down, and the Mo′ab·ites came to be David’s servants bearing tribute.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter18_verse3"></a><b><sup>3 </sup></b>And David went on to strike down Had·ad·e′zer the king of Zo′bah at Ha′math as he was going his way to set up his control at the river Eu·phra′tes. <a id="chapter18_verse4"></a><b><sup>4 </sup></b>Further, David captured from him a thousand chariots and seven thousand horsemen and twenty thousand men on foot. Then David hamstrung all the chariot horses, but he let a hundred chariot horses of them remain. <a id="chapter18_verse5"></a><b><sup>5 </sup></b>When Syria of Damascus came to help Had·ad·e′zer the king of Zo′bah, David went striking down among the Syrians twenty-two thousand men. <a id="chapter18_verse6"></a><b><sup>6 </sup></b>After that David put garrisons in Syria of Damascus, and the Syrians came to be David’s servants bearing tribute. And Jehovah kept giving salvation to David wherever he went. <a id="chapter18_verse7"></a><b><sup>7 </sup></b>Moreover, David took the circular shields of gold that happened to be on the servants of Had·ad·e′zer and brought them <a id="page562"></a>to Jerusalem. <a id="chapter18_verse8"></a><b><sup>8 </sup></b>And from Tib′hath and Cun, cities of Had·ad·e′zer, David took very much copper. With it Sol′o·mon made the copper sea and the pillars and the copper utensils.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter18_verse9"></a><b><sup>9 </sup></b>When To′u the king of Ha′math heard that David had struck down all the military force of Had·ad·e′zer the king of Zo′bah, <a id="chapter18_verse10"></a><b><sup>10 </sup></b>he immediately sent Ha·do′ram his son to King David to ask him about his welfare and congratulate him over the fact that he had fought against Had·ad·e′zer so that he struck him down, (for Had·ad·e′zer had become trained in warfare against To′u,) and there were with him all sorts of articles of gold and silver and copper. <a id="chapter18_verse11"></a><b><sup>11 </sup></b>These also King David sanctified to Jehovah together with the silver and the gold that he had carried off from all the nations, from E′dom and from Mo′ab and from the sons of Am′mon and from the Phi·lis′tines and from Am′a·lek.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter18_verse12"></a><b><sup>12 </sup></b>As for A·bish′ai the son of Ze·ru′iah, he struck down the E′dom·ites in the Valley of Salt, eighteen thousand. <a id="chapter18_verse13"></a><b><sup>13 </sup></b>So he put garrisons in E′dom, and all the E′dom·ites came to be David’s servants. And Jehovah kept saving David wherever he went. <a id="chapter18_verse14"></a><b><sup>14 </sup></b>And David continued to reign over all Israel, and he was continually rendering judicial decision and righteousness for all his people. <a id="chapter18_verse15"></a><b><sup>15 </sup></b>And Jo′ab the son of Ze·ru′iah was over the army, and Je·hosh′a·phat the son of A·hi′lud was recorder. <a id="chapter18_verse16"></a><b><sup>16 </sup></b>And Za′dok the son of A·hi′tub and A·him′e·lech the son of A·bi′a·thar were priests, and Shav′sha was secretary. <a id="chapter18_verse17"></a><b><sup>17 </sup></b>And Be·nai′ah the son of Je·hoi′a·da was over the Cher′e·thites and the Pel′e·thites; and the sons of David were the first in position at the side of the king.</p>
</body>
</html>
