<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="application/xhtml+xml; charset=utf-8" />
<title>1 Chronicles 22</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/bi12.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
<p class="w_biblebookname">1 Chronicles</p><p class="sb"><a id="chapter22"></a><a id="chapter22_verse1"></a><span class="w_ch"><b>22 </b></span>Then David said: “This is the house of Jehovah the true God, and this is an altar for burnt offering for Israel.”</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter22_verse2"></a><b><sup>2 </sup></b>David now said to bring together the alien residents that were in the land of Israel, and then he set them as stone hewers to hew squared stones for building the house of the true God. <a id="chapter22_verse3"></a><b><sup>3 </sup></b>And iron in great quantity for nails for the doors of the gates and for clamps David prepared, and also copper in such quantity as to be beyond weighing, <a id="chapter22_verse4"></a><b><sup>4 </sup></b>and also cedar timbers without number; for the Si·do′ni·ans and the Tyr′i·ans brought in cedar timbers in great quantity to David. <a id="chapter22_verse5"></a><b><sup>5 </sup></b>Accordingly David said: “Sol′o·mon my son is young and delicate, and the <a id="page566"></a>house to be built to Jehovah is to be surpassingly magnificent for beauteous distinction to all the lands. Let me, then, make preparation for him.” So David made preparation in great quantities before his death.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter22_verse6"></a><b><sup>6 </sup></b>Moreover, he called Sol′o·mon his son that he might command him to build a house to Jehovah the God of Israel. <a id="chapter22_verse7"></a><b><sup>7 </sup></b>And David went on to say to Sol′o·mon his son: “As for myself, it became close to my heart to build a house to the name of Jehovah my God. <a id="chapter22_verse8"></a><b><sup>8 </sup></b>But Jehovah’s word came against me, saying, ‘Blood in great quantity you have spilled, and great wars you have waged. You will not build a house to my name, for a great deal of blood you have spilled on the earth before me. <a id="chapter22_verse9"></a><b><sup>9 </sup></b>Look! There is a son being born to you. He himself will prove to be a restful man, and I shall certainly give him rest from all his enemies all around; for Sol′o·mon is what his name will become, and peace and quietness I shall bestow upon Israel in his days. <a id="chapter22_verse10"></a><b><sup>10 </sup></b>It is he that will build a house to my name, and he himself will become a son to me, and I a father to him. And I shall certainly establish the throne of his kingship firmly over Israel to time indefinite.’</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter22_verse11"></a><b><sup>11 </sup></b>“Now, my son, may Jehovah prove to be with you, and you must prove successful and build the house of Jehovah your God, just as he has spoken concerning you. <a id="chapter22_verse12"></a><b><sup>12 </sup></b>Only may Jehovah give you discretion and understanding, and may he give you commandment concerning Israel even to keep the law of Jehovah your God. <a id="chapter22_verse13"></a><b><sup>13 </sup></b>In that case you will prove successful if you take care to carry out the regulations and the judicial decisions that Jehovah commanded Moses respecting Israel. Be courageous and strong. Do not be afraid nor be terrified. <a id="chapter22_verse14"></a><b><sup>14 </sup></b>And here during my affliction I have prepared for Jehovah’s house a hundred thousand talents of gold and a million talents of silver, and the copper and the iron there is no means of weighing because they have come to be in such quantity; and timbers and stones I have prepared, but to them you will make additions. <a id="chapter22_verse15"></a><b><sup>15 </sup></b>And with you there are in great number doers of work, stone hewers and workers in stone and wood and every one skillful in every sort of work. <a id="chapter22_verse16"></a><b><sup>16 </sup></b>The gold, the silver and the copper and the iron there is no means of numbering. Rise and act, and may Jehovah prove to be with you.”</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter22_verse17"></a><b><sup>17 </sup></b>And David went on to command all the princes of Israel to help Sol′o·mon his son: <a id="chapter22_verse18"></a><b><sup>18 </sup></b>“Is not Jehovah <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>God with <span class="smcap">YOU</span>, and has he not given <span class="smcap">YOU </span>rest all around? For he has given into my hand the inhabitants of the land, and the land has been subdued before Jehovah and before his people. <a id="chapter22_verse19"></a><b><sup>19 </sup></b>Now set <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>heart and <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>soul to inquire after Jehovah <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>God, and rise and build the sanctuary of Jehovah the true God, to bring the ark of the covenant of Jehovah and the holy utensils of the true God to the house built to the name of Jehovah.”</p>
</body>
</html>
