<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="application/xhtml+xml; charset=utf-8" />
<title>1 Chronicles 25</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/bi12.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
<p class="w_biblebookname">1 Chronicles</p><p class="sb"><a id="chapter25"></a><a id="chapter25_verse1"></a><span class="w_ch"><b>25 </b></span>Further, David and the chiefs of the service groups separated for the service some of the sons of A′saph, He′man and Je·du′thun the ones prophesying with the harps, with the stringed instruments and with the cymbals. And from their number the official men for their service came to be. <a id="chapter25_verse2"></a><b><sup>2 </sup></b>Of the sons of A′saph, Zac′cur and Joseph and Neth·a·ni′ah and Ash·a·re′lah, the sons of A′saph under the control of A′saph the one prophesying under the control of the king. <a id="chapter25_verse3"></a><b><sup>3 </sup></b>Of Je·du′thun: the sons of Je·du′thun, Ged·a·li′ah and Ze′ri and Je·sha′iah, and Shim′e·i, Hash·a·bi′ah and Mat·ti·thi′ah, six, under the control of their father Je·du′thun, who was prophesying with the harp for thanking and praising Jehovah. <a id="chapter25_verse4"></a><b><sup>4 </sup></b>Of He′man: the sons of He′man, Buk·ki′ah, Mat·ta·ni′ah, Uz′zi·el, Sheb′u·el and Jer′i·moth, Han·a·ni′ah, Ha·na′ni, E·li′a·thah, Gid·dal′ti and Ro·mam′ti-e′zer, Josh·be·kash′ah, Mal·lo′thi, Ho′thir, Ma·ha′zi·oth. <a id="chapter25_verse5"></a><b><sup>5 </sup></b>All these were sons of He′man, a visionary of the king in the things of the true God to raise up his horn; thus the true God proceeded to give He′man fourteen sons and three daughters. <a id="chapter25_verse6"></a><b><sup>6 </sup></b>All these were under the control of their father in song at the house of Jehovah, with cymbals, stringed instruments and harps for the service of the house of the true God.</p>
<p class="sb">Under the control of the king were A′saph and Je·du′thun and He′man.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter25_verse7"></a><b><sup>7 </sup></b>And the number of them together with their brothers trained in song to Jehovah, all experts, came to be two hundred and eighty-eight. <a id="chapter25_verse8"></a><b><sup>8 </sup></b>So they cast lots as to the things to be taken care of, the little being just the same as the great, the expert along with the learner.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter25_verse9"></a><b><sup>9 </sup></b>And the lot proceeded to come out: the first belonging to A′saph for Joseph, for Ged·a·li′ah the second (he and his brothers and his sons were twelve); <a id="chapter25_verse10"></a><b><sup>10 </sup></b>the third for Zac′cur, his sons and his brothers, twelve; <a id="chapter25_verse11"></a><b><sup>11 </sup></b>the fourth for Iz′ri, his sons and his brothers, twelve; <a id="chapter25_verse12"></a><b><sup>12 </sup></b>the fifth for Neth·a·ni′ah, his sons and his brothers, twelve; <a id="chapter25_verse13"></a><b><sup>13 </sup></b>the sixth for Buk·ki′ah, his sons and his brothers, twelve; <a id="chapter25_verse14"></a><b><sup>14 </sup></b>the seventh for Jesh·a·re′lah, his sons and his brothers, twelve; <a id="chapter25_verse15"></a><b><sup>15 </sup></b>the eighth for Je·sha′iah, his sons and his brothers, twelve; <a id="chapter25_verse16"></a><b><sup>16 </sup></b>the ninth for Mat·ta·ni′ah, his sons and his brothers, twelve; <a id="chapter25_verse17"></a><b><sup>17 </sup></b>the tenth for Shim′e·i, his sons and his brothers, twelve; <a id="chapter25_verse18"></a><b><sup>18 </sup></b>the eleventh for Az′ar·el, his sons and his brothers, twelve; <a id="chapter25_verse19"></a><b><sup>19 </sup></b>the twelfth for Hash·a·bi′ah, his sons and his brothers, twelve; <a id="chapter25_verse20"></a><b><sup>20 </sup></b>for the thirteenth, Shu′ba·el, his sons and his brothers, twelve; <a id="chapter25_verse21"></a><b><sup>21 </sup></b>for the fourteenth, Mat·ti·thi′ah, his sons and his brothers, twelve; <a id="chapter25_verse22"></a><b><sup>22 </sup></b>for the fifteenth, for Jer′e·moth, his sons and his brothers, twelve; <a id="chapter25_verse23"></a><b><sup>23 </sup></b>for the sixteenth, for Han·a·ni′ah, his sons and his brothers, twelve; <a id="chapter25_verse24"></a><b><sup>24 </sup></b>for the seventeenth, for Josh·be·kash′ah, his sons and his brothers, twelve; <a id="chapter25_verse25"></a><b><sup>25 </sup></b>for the eighteenth, for Ha·na′ni, his sons and his brothers, twelve; <a id="page570"></a><a id="chapter25_verse26"></a><b><sup>26 </sup></b>for the nineteenth, for Mal·lo′thi, his sons and his brothers, twelve; <a id="chapter25_verse27"></a><b><sup>27 </sup></b>for the twentieth, for E·li′a·thah, his sons and his brothers, twelve; <a id="chapter25_verse28"></a><b><sup>28 </sup></b>for the twenty-first, for Ho′thir, his sons and his brothers, twelve; <a id="chapter25_verse29"></a><b><sup>29 </sup></b>for the twenty-second, for Gid·dal′ti, his sons and his brothers, twelve; <a id="chapter25_verse30"></a><b><sup>30 </sup></b>for the twenty-third, for Ma·ha′zi·oth, his sons and his brothers, twelve; <a id="chapter25_verse31"></a><b><sup>31 </sup></b>for the twenty-fourth, for Ro·mam′ti-e′zer, his sons and his brothers, twelve.</p>
</body>
</html>
