<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="application/xhtml+xml; charset=utf-8" />
<title>1 Chronicles 5</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/bi12.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
<p class="w_biblebookname">1 Chronicles</p><p class="sb"><a id="chapter5"></a><a id="chapter5_verse1"></a><span class="w_ch"><b>5 </b></span>And the sons of Reu′ben the firstborn of Israel—for he was the firstborn; but for his profaning the lounge of his father his right as firstborn was given to the sons of Joseph the son of Israel, so that he was not to be enrolled genealogically for the right of the firstborn. <a id="chapter5_verse2"></a><b><sup>2 </sup></b>For Judah himself proved to be superior among his brothers, and the one for leader was from him; but the right as firstborn was Joseph’s— <a id="chapter5_verse3"></a><b><sup>3 </sup></b>the sons of Reu′ben the firstborn of Israel were Ha′noch and Pal′lu, Hez′ron and Car′mi. <a id="chapter5_verse4"></a><b><sup>4 </sup></b>The sons of Joel were She·mai′ah his son, Gog his son, Shim′e·i his son, <a id="chapter5_verse5"></a><b><sup>5 </sup></b>Mi′cah his son, Re·a′iah his son, Ba′al his son, <a id="chapter5_verse6"></a><b><sup>6 </sup></b>Be·er′ah his son, whom Til′gath-pil·ne′ser the king of As·syr′i·a took into exile, he being a chieftain of the Reu′ben·ites. <a id="chapter5_verse7"></a><b><sup>7 </sup></b>And his brothers by their families in the genealogical enrollment by their descendants were, as the head, Je·i′el, and Zech·a·ri′ah, <a id="chapter5_verse8"></a><b><sup>8 </sup></b>and Be′la the son of A′zaz the son of She′ma the son of Joel—he was dwelling in A·ro′er and as far as Ne′bo and Ba′al-me′on. <a id="chapter5_verse9"></a><b><sup>9 </sup></b>Even to the east he dwelt as far as where one enters the wilderness at the river Eu·phra′tes, for their livestock itself had become numerous in the land of Gil′e·ad. <a id="chapter5_verse10"></a><b><sup>10 </sup></b>And in the days of Saul they made war upon the Hag′rites, who came to fall by their hand; and so they dwelt in their tents throughout all the country east of Gil′e·ad.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter5_verse11"></a><b><sup>11 </sup></b>As for the sons of Gad in front of them, they dwelt <a id="page543"></a>in the land of Ba′shan as far as Sal′e·cah. <a id="chapter5_verse12"></a><b><sup>12 </sup></b>Joel was the head, and Sha′pham the second, and Ja′nai and Sha′phat in Ba′shan. <a id="chapter5_verse13"></a><b><sup>13 </sup></b>And their brothers belonging to the house of their forefathers were Mi′cha·el and Me·shul′lam and She′ba and Jo′rai and Ja′can and Zi′a and E′ber, seven. <a id="chapter5_verse14"></a><b><sup>14 </sup></b>These were the sons of Ab′i·ha·il the son of Hu′ri, the son of Ja·ro′ah, the son of Gil′e·ad, the son of Mi′cha·el, the son of Je·shish′ai, the son of Jah′do, the son of Buz; <a id="chapter5_verse15"></a><b><sup>15 </sup></b>A′hi the son of Ab′di·el, the son of Gu′ni, head of the house of their forefathers. <a id="chapter5_verse16"></a><b><sup>16 </sup></b>And they continued to dwell in Gil′e·ad, in Ba′shan and in its dependent towns and in all the pasture grounds of Shar′on as far as their terminations. <a id="chapter5_verse17"></a><b><sup>17 </sup></b>They were all of them enrolled genealogically in the days of Jo′tham the king of Judah and in the days of Jer·o·bo′am the king of Israel.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter5_verse18"></a><b><sup>18 </sup></b>As for the sons of Reu′ben and the Gad′ites and the half tribe of Ma·nas′seh; of those who were valiant fellows, men carrying shield and sword and bending the bow and trained in war, there were forty-four thousand seven hundred and sixty going out to the army. <a id="chapter5_verse19"></a><b><sup>19 </sup></b>And they began to make war upon the Hag′rites, and Je′tur and Na′phish and No′dab. <a id="chapter5_verse20"></a><b><sup>20 </sup></b>And they came to be helped against them, so that the Hag′rites and all those who were with them were given into their hand, for it was to God that they called for aid in the war, and he let himself be entreated in their favor because they trusted in him. <a id="chapter5_verse21"></a><b><sup>21 </sup></b>And they got to take captive their livestock, their camels fifty thousand, and sheep two hundred and fifty thousand, and asses two thousand, and human souls a hundred thousand. <a id="chapter5_verse22"></a><b><sup>22 </sup></b>For there were many that had fallen slain, because it was on the part of the true God that the fighting was. And they continued to dwell in their place down to the time of the exile.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter5_verse23"></a><b><sup>23 </sup></b>As for the sons of the half tribe of Ma·nas′seh, they dwelt in the land from Ba′shan to Ba′al-her′mon and Se′nir and Mount Her′mon. They themselves became numerous. <a id="chapter5_verse24"></a><b><sup>24 </sup></b>And these were the heads of the house of their forefathers: E′pher and Ish′i and E′li·el and Az′ri·el and Jeremiah and Hod·a·vi′ah and Jah′di·el, men that were valiant, mighty fellows, men of fame, heads of the house of their forefathers. <a id="chapter5_verse25"></a><b><sup>25 </sup></b>And they began to act unfaithfully toward the God of their forefathers and went having immoral intercourse with the gods of the peoples of the land, whom God had annihilated from before them. <a id="chapter5_verse26"></a><b><sup>26 </sup></b>Consequently the God of Israel stirred up the spirit of Pul the king of As·syr′i·a even the spirit of Til′gath-pil·ne′ser the king of As·syr′i·a, so that he took into exile those of the Reu′ben·ites and of the Gad′ites and of the half tribe of Ma·nas′seh and brought them to Ha′lah and Ha′bor and Ha′ra and the river Go′zan to continue until this day.</p>
</body>
</html>
