<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="application/xhtml+xml; charset=utf-8" />
<title>2 Chronicles 25</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/bi12.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
<p class="w_biblebookname">2 Chronicles</p><p class="sb"><a id="chapter25"></a><a id="chapter25_verse1"></a><span class="w_ch"><b>25 </b></span>At the age of twenty-five years Am·a·zi′ah became king, and for twenty-nine years he reigned in Jerusalem. And his mother’s name was Je·ho·ad′dan of Jerusalem. <a id="chapter25_verse2"></a><b><sup>2 </sup></b>And he continued to do what was right in Jehovah’s eyes, only not with a complete heart. <a id="chapter25_verse3"></a><b><sup>3 </sup></b>And it came about that as soon as the kingdom had become strong upon him, he promptly killed his servants who had struck down the king his father. <a id="chapter25_verse4"></a><b><sup>4 </sup></b>And their sons he did not put to death, but did according to what is written in the law, in the book of Moses, that Jehovah commanded, saying: “Fathers should not die for sons, neither should sons themselves die for fathers; but it is each one <a id="page606"></a>for his own sin that they should die.”</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter25_verse5"></a><b><sup>5 </sup></b>And Am·a·zi′ah proceeded to collect Judah together and to have them stand according to the house of the forefathers, by the chiefs of thousands and by the chiefs of hundreds for all Judah and Benjamin; and he went on to register them from twenty years of age upward, and finally he found them to be three hundred thousand choice men going out to the army, handling lance and large shield. <a id="chapter25_verse6"></a><b><sup>6 </sup></b>Further, he hired from Israel a hundred thousand valiant, mighty men for a hundred silver talents. <a id="chapter25_verse7"></a><b><sup>7 </sup></b>And a certain man of the true God came to him, saying: “O king, do not let the army of Israel come with you, for Jehovah is not with Israel, that is, all the sons of E′phra·im. <a id="chapter25_verse8"></a><b><sup>8 </sup></b>But come you yourself, act, be courageous for the war. The true God could cause you to stumble before an enemy; for there exists power with God to help and to cause stumbling.” <a id="chapter25_verse9"></a><b><sup>9 </sup></b>At this Am·a·zi′ah said to the man of the true God: “But what is there to do about the hundred talents that I have given to the troops of Israel?” To this the man of the true God said: “There exists with Jehovah the means to give you much more than this.” <a id="chapter25_verse10"></a><b><sup>10 </sup></b>Accordingly Am·a·zi′ah separated them, namely, the troops that had come to him from E′phra·im, to go to their own place. However, their anger got very hot against Judah, so that they returned to their own place in the heat of anger.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter25_verse11"></a><b><sup>11 </sup></b>And Am·a·zi′ah, for his part, took courage and proceeded to lead his own people and go to the Valley of Salt; and he went striking down the sons of Se′ir, ten thousand of them. <a id="chapter25_verse12"></a><b><sup>12 </sup></b>And there were ten thousand that the sons of Judah captured alive. So they brought them to the top of the crag, and proceeded to throw them from the top of the crag; and they, one and all, burst apart. <a id="chapter25_verse13"></a><b><sup>13 </sup></b>As for the members of the troop whom Am·a·zi′ah had sent back from going with him to the war, they began making raids upon the cities of Judah, from Sa·mar′i·a clear to Beth-ho′ron, and went striking down three thousand of them and taking a great plunder.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter25_verse14"></a><b><sup>14 </sup></b>But it occurred after Am·a·zi′ah came from striking down the E′dom·ites that he now brought the gods of the sons of Se′ir and set them up for himself as gods, and before them he began to bow down, and to them he began to make sacrificial smoke. <a id="chapter25_verse15"></a><b><sup>15 </sup></b>Consequently Jehovah’s anger became hot against Am·a·zi′ah, and so he sent a prophet to him and said to him: “Why have you searched for the people’s gods that did not deliver their own people out of your hand?” <a id="chapter25_verse16"></a><b><sup>16 </sup></b>And it came about when he spoke to him that the king immediately said to him: “Was it a counselor of the king that we constituted you? Quit for your own sake. Why should they strike you down?” Accordingly the prophet quit, but he said: “I certainly know that God has resolved to bring you to ruin, because you have done this and you have not listened to my counsel.”</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter25_verse17"></a><b><sup>17 </sup></b>Then Am·a·zi′ah the king of Judah took counsel and sent to Je·ho′ash the son of Je·ho′a·haz the son of Je′hu the king of Israel, saying: “Come! Let us look each other in the face.” <a id="chapter25_verse18"></a><b><sup>18 </sup></b>At that Je·ho′ash the king of Israel sent to Am·a·zi′ah the king of Judah, saying: “The thorny weed itself that was in Leb′a·non sent to the cedar that was in Leb′a·non, saying, ‘Do give your daughter to my son as a wife.’ However, a wild beast of the field that was in Leb′a·non passed <a id="page607"></a>by and trampled the thorny weed down. <a id="chapter25_verse19"></a><b><sup>19 </sup></b>You have said to yourself, Here you have struck down E′dom. And your heart has lifted you up to be glorified. Now do keep dwelling in your own house. Why should you engage in strife in a bad position and have to fall, you and Judah with you?”</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter25_verse20"></a><b><sup>20 </sup></b>But Am·a·zi′ah did not listen; for it was from the true God for the purpose of giving them into his hand, because they had searched for the gods of E′dom. <a id="chapter25_verse21"></a><b><sup>21 </sup></b>So Je·ho′ash the king of Israel went up, and they proceeded to look each other in the face, he and Am·a·zi′ah the king of Judah, at Beth-she′mesh, which belongs to Judah. <a id="chapter25_verse22"></a><b><sup>22 </sup></b>And Judah came to be defeated before Israel, so that they took to flight each one to his tent. <a id="chapter25_verse23"></a><b><sup>23 </sup></b>And it was Am·a·zi′ah the king of Judah, the son of Je·ho′ash the son of Je·ho′a·haz, that Je·ho′ash the king of Israel seized at Beth-she′mesh, after which he brought him to Jerusalem and made a breach in the wall of Jerusalem, from the Gate of E′phra·im clear to the Corner Gate, four hundred cubits. <a id="chapter25_verse24"></a><b><sup>24 </sup></b>And he took all the gold and the silver and all the articles that were to be found in the house of the true God with O′bed-e′dom and the treasures of the king’s house and the hostages, and then returned to Sa·mar′i·a.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter25_verse25"></a><b><sup>25 </sup></b>And Am·a·zi′ah the son of Je·ho′ash the king of Judah continued to live after the death of Je·ho′ash the son of Je·ho′a·haz the king of Israel fifteen years. <a id="chapter25_verse26"></a><b><sup>26 </sup></b>As for the rest of the affairs of Am·a·zi′ah, the first and the last, look! are they not written in the Book of the Kings of Judah and Israel? <a id="chapter25_verse27"></a><b><sup>27 </sup></b>And from the time that Am·a·zi′ah turned aside from following Jehovah, they proceeded to form a conspiracy against him in Jerusalem. At length he fled to La′chish; but they sent after him to La′chish and put him to death there. <a id="chapter25_verse28"></a><b><sup>28 </sup></b>So they carried him upon horses and buried him with his forefathers in the city of Judah.</p>
</body>
</html>
