<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="application/xhtml+xml; charset=utf-8" />
<title>2 Chronicles 10</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/bi12.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
<p class="w_biblebookname">2 Chronicles</p><p class="sb"><a id="chapter10"></a><a id="chapter10_verse1"></a><span class="w_ch"><b>10 </b></span>And Re·ho·bo′am proceeded to go to She′chem, for it was to She′chem that all the Israelites came to make him king. <a id="chapter10_verse2"></a><b><sup>2 </sup></b>And it came about that as soon as Jer·o·bo′am the son of Ne′bat heard of it while he was yet in Egypt, (because <a id="page588"></a>he had run away on account of Sol′o·mon the king,) Jer·o·bo′am immediately came back from Egypt. <a id="chapter10_verse3"></a><b><sup>3 </sup></b>So they sent and called him, and Jer·o·bo′am and all Israel came and spoke to Re·ho·bo′am, saying: <a id="chapter10_verse4"></a><b><sup>4 </sup></b>“Your father, for his part, made our yoke hard; and now make the hard service of your father and the heavy yoke that he put upon us lighter, and we shall serve you.”</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter10_verse5"></a><b><sup>5 </sup></b>At this he said to them: “Let there be yet three days. Then return to me.” So the people went away. <a id="chapter10_verse6"></a><b><sup>6 </sup></b>And King Re·ho·bo′am began to take counsel with the older men that were continually attending upon Sol′o·mon his father while he continued alive, saying: “How are <span class="smcap">YOU </span>advising to reply to this people?” <a id="chapter10_verse7"></a><b><sup>7 </sup></b>Accordingly they spoke to him, saying: “If you would prove yourself good to this people and actually be pleasing to them and indeed speak good words to them, they also will certainly become your servants always.”</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter10_verse8"></a><b><sup>8 </sup></b>However, he left the counsel of the older men with which they had advised him, and he began to take counsel with the young men that had grown up with him, who were the ones attending upon him. <a id="chapter10_verse9"></a><b><sup>9 </sup></b>And he went on to say to them: “What is it that <span class="smcap">YOU </span>are offering in counsel that we may reply to this people who have spoken to me, saying, ‘Make the yoke that your father put upon us lighter’?” <a id="chapter10_verse10"></a><b><sup>10 </sup></b>In turn the young men that had grown up with him spoke with him, saying: “This is what you should say to the people who have spoken to you, saying, ‘Your father, for his part, made our yoke heavy, but, as for you, make it lighter upon us’; this is what you should say to them, ‘My own little finger will certainly be thicker than my father’s hips. <a id="chapter10_verse11"></a><b><sup>11 </sup></b>And now my father, for his part, loaded upon <span class="smcap">YOU </span>a heavy yoke, but I, for my part, shall add to <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>yoke. My father, for his part, chastised <span class="smcap">YOU </span>with whips, but I, for my part, with scourges.’”</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter10_verse12"></a><b><sup>12 </sup></b>And Jer·o·bo′am and all the people proceeded to come to Re·ho·bo′am on the third day, just as the king had spoken, saying: “Return to me on the third day.” <a id="chapter10_verse13"></a><b><sup>13 </sup></b>And the king began to answer them harshly. Thus King Re·ho·bo′am left the counsel of the older men, <a id="chapter10_verse14"></a><b><sup>14 </sup></b>and he went on to speak to them according to the counsel of the young men, saying: “I shall make <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>yoke heavier, and I, for my part, shall add to it. My father, for his part, chastised <span class="smcap">YOU </span>with whips, but I, for my part, with scourges.” <a id="chapter10_verse15"></a><b><sup>15 </sup></b>And the king did not listen to the people; for it proved to be a turn of affairs from the true God in order that Jehovah might carry out his word that he had spoken by means of A·hi′jah the Shi′lo·nite to Jer·o·bo′am the son of Ne′bat.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter10_verse16"></a><b><sup>16 </sup></b>As for all Israel, because the king did not listen to them, the people now replied to the king, saying: “What share do we have in David? And there is no inheritance in the son of Jes′se. Each one to your gods, O Israel! Now see to your own house, O David.” With that all Israel began to go to its tents.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter10_verse17"></a><b><sup>17 </sup></b>As for the sons of Israel that were dwelling in the cities of Judah, Re·ho·bo′am continued to reign over them.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter10_verse18"></a><b><sup>18 </sup></b>Subsequently King Re·ho·bo′am sent Ha·do′ram, who was over those conscripted for forced labor, but the sons of Israel pelted him with stones, so that he died. And King Re·ho·bo′am himself managed to get up into his chariot to flee to Jerusalem. <a id="chapter10_verse19"></a><b><sup>19 </sup></b>And the Israelites kept up their revolt against the house of David down to this day.</p>
</body>
</html>
