<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="application/xhtml+xml; charset=utf-8" />
<title>Ezra 8</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/bi12.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
<p class="w_biblebookname">Ezra</p><p class="sb"><a id="chapter8"></a><a id="chapter8_verse1"></a><span class="w_ch"><b>8 </b></span>Now these were the heads of their paternal houses and the genealogical enrollment of those going up with me during the reign of Ar·ta·xerx′es the king out of Babylon: <a id="chapter8_verse2"></a><b><sup>2 </sup></b>Of the sons of Phin′e·has, Ger′shom; of the sons of Ith′a·mar, Daniel; of the sons of David, Hat′tush; <a id="chapter8_verse3"></a><b><sup>3 </sup></b>of the sons of Shec·a·ni′ah, of the sons of Pa′rosh, Zech·a·ri′ah, and with him there was an enrollment of a hundred and fifty males; <a id="chapter8_verse4"></a><b><sup>4 </sup></b>of the sons of Pa′hath-mo′ab, El′ie·ho-e′nai the son of Zer·a·hi′ah, and with him two hundred males; <a id="chapter8_verse5"></a><b><sup>5 </sup></b>of the sons of Zat′tu, Shec·a·ni′ah the son of Ja·ha·zi′el, and with him three hundred males; <a id="chapter8_verse6"></a><b><sup>6 </sup></b>and of the sons of A′din, E′bed the son of Jon′a·than, and with him fifty males; <a id="chapter8_verse7"></a><b><sup>7 </sup></b>and of the sons of E′lam, Je·sha′iah the son of Ath·a·li′ah, and with him seventy males; <a id="chapter8_verse8"></a><b><sup>8 </sup></b>and of the sons of Sheph·a·ti′ah, Zeb·a·di′ah the son of Mi′cha·el, and with him eighty males; <a id="chapter8_verse9"></a><b><sup>9 </sup></b>of the sons of Jo′ab, O·ba·di′ah the son of Je·hi′el, and with him two hundred and eighteen males; <a id="chapter8_verse10"></a><b><sup>10 </sup></b>and of the sons of Ba′ni, She·lo′mith the son of Jo·si·phi′ah, and with him a hundred and sixty males; <a id="chapter8_verse11"></a><b><sup>11 </sup></b>and of the sons of Be′bai, Zech·a·ri′ah the son of Be′bai, and with him twenty-eight males; <a id="chapter8_verse12"></a><b><sup>12 </sup></b>and of the sons of Az′gad, Jo·ha′nan the son of Hak′ka·tan, and with him a hundred and ten males; <a id="chapter8_verse13"></a><b><sup>13 </sup></b>and of the sons of Ad·o·ni′kam, those who were the last, and these were their names: E·liph′e·let, Je·i′el and She·mai′ah, and with them sixty males; <a id="chapter8_verse14"></a><b><sup>14 </sup></b>and of the sons of Big′vai, U′thai and Zab′bud, and with them seventy males.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter8_verse15"></a><b><sup>15 </sup></b>And I proceeded to collect them at the river that comes to A·ha′va; and we kept encamped there three days, that I might scrutinize the people and the priests, but none of the sons of Le′vi did I find there. <a id="chapter8_verse16"></a><b><sup>16 </sup></b>Accordingly I sent for E·li·e′zer, Ar′i·el, She·mai′ah and El·na′than and Ja′rib and El·na′than and Nathan and Zech·a·ri′ah and Me·shul′lam, head ones, and for Joi′a·rib and El·na′than, instructors. <a id="chapter8_verse17"></a><b><sup>17 </sup></b>Then I gave them a command concerning Id′do the head one in the place Ca·si·phi′a, and I put in their mouth words to speak to Id′do and his brothers the Neth′i·nim in the place Ca·si·phi′a, to bring to us ministers for the house of our God. <a id="chapter8_verse18"></a><b><sup>18 </sup></b>So they brought to us, according to the good hand of our God upon us, a man of discretion from the sons of Mah′li the grandson of Le′vi the son of Israel, namely, She·re·bi′ah and his sons and his brothers, eighteen; <a id="chapter8_verse19"></a><b><sup>19 </sup></b>and Hash·a·bi′ah and with him Je·sha′iah from the sons of Me·rar′i, his brothers, and their sons, twenty. <a id="chapter8_verse20"></a><b><sup>20 </sup></b>And from the Neth′i·nim, whom David and the princes gave to the service of the Levites, two hundred and twenty Neth′i·nim, all of whom had been designated by their names.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter8_verse21"></a><b><sup>21 </sup></b>Then I proclaimed a fast there at the river A·ha′va, to humble ourselves before our God, to seek from him the right way for us and for our little ones and for all our goods. <a id="chapter8_verse22"></a><b><sup>22 </sup></b>For I felt ashamed to ask a military force and horsemen from the king to help us against the enemy in the way, because we <a id="page635"></a>had said to the king: “The hand of our God is over all those seeking him for good, but his strength and his anger are against all those leaving him.” <a id="chapter8_verse23"></a><b><sup>23 </sup></b>Therefore we fasted and made request of our God concerning this, so that he let himself be entreated by us.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter8_verse24"></a><b><sup>24 </sup></b>I now separated from the chiefs of the priests twelve, namely, She·re·bi′ah, Hash·a·bi′ah, and with them ten of their brothers. <a id="chapter8_verse25"></a><b><sup>25 </sup></b>And I proceeded to weigh out to them the silver and the gold and the utensils, the contribution to the house of our God that the king and his counselors and his princes and all the Israelites who were to be found had contributed. <a id="chapter8_verse26"></a><b><sup>26 </sup></b>Thus I weighed out into their hand six hundred and fifty talents of silver and a hundred silver utensils worth two talents, and gold a hundred talents, <a id="chapter8_verse27"></a><b><sup>27 </sup></b>and twenty small gold bowls worth a thousand darics and two utensils of good copper, gleaming red, as desirable as gold.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter8_verse28"></a><b><sup>28 </sup></b>Then I said to them: “Y<span class="smcap">OU </span>are something holy to Jehovah, and the utensils are something holy, and the silver and the gold are a voluntary offering to Jehovah the God of <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>forefathers. <a id="chapter8_verse29"></a><b><sup>29 </sup></b>Keep awake and be on guard until <span class="smcap">YOU </span>weigh them out before the chiefs of the priests and the Levites and the princes of the fathers of Israel in Jerusalem, in the dining halls of the house of Jehovah.” <a id="chapter8_verse30"></a><b><sup>30 </sup></b>And the priests and the Levites received the weight of the silver and the gold and the utensils, to bring them to Jerusalem to the house of our God.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter8_verse31"></a><b><sup>31 </sup></b>Finally we pulled away from the river A·ha′va on the twelfth day of the first month to go to Jerusalem, and the very hand of our God proved to be over us, so that he delivered us out of the palm of the enemy and the ambush by the way. <a id="chapter8_verse32"></a><b><sup>32 </sup></b>So we came to Jerusalem and dwelt there three days. <a id="chapter8_verse33"></a><b><sup>33 </sup></b>And on the fourth day we proceeded to weigh out the silver and the gold and the utensils in the house of our God into the hand of Mer′e·moth the son of U·ri′jah the priest and with him El·e·a′zar the son of Phin′e·has and with them Jo′za·bad the son of Jesh′u·a and No·a·di′ah the son of Bin′nu·i the Levites, <a id="chapter8_verse34"></a><b><sup>34 </sup></b>by number and by weight for everything, after which all the weight was written down at that time. <a id="chapter8_verse35"></a><b><sup>35 </sup></b>Those coming out of the captivity, the former exiles, themselves presented burnt sacrifices to the God of Israel, twelve bulls for all Israel, ninety-six rams, seventy-seven male lambs, twelve he-goats as a sin offering, everything as a burnt offering to Jehovah.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter8_verse36"></a><b><sup>36 </sup></b>Then we gave the laws of the king to the satraps of the king and the governors beyond the River, and they assisted the people and the house of the true God.</p>
</body>
</html>
