<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="application/xhtml+xml; charset=utf-8" />
<title>Nehemiah 11</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/bi12.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
<p class="w_biblebookname">Nehemiah</p><p class="sb"><a id="chapter11"></a><a id="chapter11_verse1"></a><span class="w_ch"><b>11 </b></span>Now the princes of the people had their dwelling in Jerusalem; but as for the rest of the people, they cast lots to bring in one out of every ten to dwell in Jerusalem the holy city, and the nine other parts in the other cities. <a id="chapter11_verse2"></a><b><sup>2 </sup></b>Moreover, the people blessed all the men who volunteered to dwell in Jerusalem.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter11_verse3"></a><b><sup>3 </sup></b>And these are the heads of the jurisdictional district who dwelt in Jerusalem; but in the cities of Judah there dwelt, each one in his own possession, in their cities, Israel, the priests and the Levites, and the Neth′i·nim and the sons of the servants of Sol′o·mon.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter11_verse4"></a><b><sup>4 </sup></b>Also, in Jerusalem there dwelt some of the sons of Judah and some of the sons of Benjamin. Of the sons of Judah there were A·thai′ah the son of Uz·zi′ah the son of Zech·a·ri′ah the son of Am·a·ri′ah the son of Sheph·a·ti′ah the son of Ma·hal′a·lel of <a id="page654"></a>the sons of Pe′rez; <a id="chapter11_verse5"></a><b><sup>5 </sup></b>and Ma·a·sei′ah the son of Bar′uch the son of Col·ho′zeh the son of Ha·zai′ah the son of A·dai′ah the son of Joi′a·rib the son of Zech·a·ri′ah the son of the She·la′nite. <a id="chapter11_verse6"></a><b><sup>6 </sup></b>All the sons of Pe′rez who were dwelling in Jerusalem were four hundred and sixty-eight, capable men.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter11_verse7"></a><b><sup>7 </sup></b>And these were the sons of Benjamin: Sal′lu the son of Me·shul′lam the son of Jo′ed the son of Pe·dai′ah the son of Ko·lai′ah the son of Ma·a·sei′ah the son of Ith′i·el the son of Je·sha′iah; <a id="chapter11_verse8"></a><b><sup>8 </sup></b>and after him Gab·ba′i and Sal·la′i, nine hundred and twenty-eight; <a id="chapter11_verse9"></a><b><sup>9 </sup></b>and Joel the son of Zich′ri, an overseer over them, and Judah the son of Has·se·nu′ah over the city as second.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter11_verse10"></a><b><sup>10 </sup></b>Of the priests: Je·da′iah the son of Joi′a·rib, Ja′chin, <a id="chapter11_verse11"></a><b><sup>11 </sup></b>Se·rai′ah the son of Hil·ki′ah the son of Me·shul′lam the son of Za′dok the son of Me·ra′ioth the son of A·hi′tub, a leader of the house of the true God; <a id="chapter11_verse12"></a><b><sup>12 </sup></b>and their brothers the doers of the work of the house, eight hundred and twenty-two; and A·dai′ah the son of Je·ro′ham the son of Pel·a·li′ah the son of Am′zi the son of Zech·a·ri′ah the son of Pash′hur the son of Mal·chi′jah, <a id="chapter11_verse13"></a><b><sup>13 </sup></b>and his brothers, heads of paternal houses, two hundred and forty-two, and A·mash′sai the son of Az′ar·el the son of Ah′zai the son of Me·shil′le·moth the son of Im′mer, <a id="chapter11_verse14"></a><b><sup>14 </sup></b>and their brothers, mighty men of valor, a hundred and twenty-eight, and there was an overseer over them, Zab′di·el the son of the great ones.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter11_verse15"></a><b><sup>15 </sup></b>And of the Levites: She·mai′ah the son of Has′shub the son of Az·ri′kam the son of Hash·a·bi′ah the son of Bun′ni, <a id="chapter11_verse16"></a><b><sup>16 </sup></b>and Shab′be·thai and Jo′za·bad, of the heads of the Levites, over the outside business of the house of the true God; <a id="chapter11_verse17"></a><b><sup>17 </sup></b>and Mat·ta·ni′ah himself, the son of Mi′cah the son of Zab′di the son of A′saph, the conductor of the praise singing, did the lauding at prayer, and Bak·bu·ki′ah was second of his brothers, and Ab′da the son of Sham·mu′a the son of Ga′lal the son of Je·du′thun. <a id="chapter11_verse18"></a><b><sup>18 </sup></b>All the Levites in the holy city were two hundred and eighty-four.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter11_verse19"></a><b><sup>19 </sup></b>And the gatekeepers were Ak′kub, Tal′mon and their brothers who were keeping guard in the gates, a hundred and seventy-two.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter11_verse20"></a><b><sup>20 </sup></b>And the rest of Israel, of the priests and of the Levites, were in all the other cities of Judah, each one in his own hereditary possession. <a id="chapter11_verse21"></a><b><sup>21 </sup></b>And the Neth′i·nim were dwelling in O′phel; and Zi′ha and Gish′pa were over the Neth′i·nim.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter11_verse22"></a><b><sup>22 </sup></b>And the overseer of the Levites in Jerusalem was Uz′zi the son of Ba′ni the son of Hash·a·bi′ah the son of Mat·ta·ni′ah the son of Mi′ca of the sons of A′saph, the singers, concerning the work of the house of the true God. <a id="chapter11_verse23"></a><b><sup>23 </sup></b>For there was a commandment of the king in behalf of them, and there was a fixed provision for the singers as each day required. <a id="chapter11_verse24"></a><b><sup>24 </sup></b>And Peth·a·hi′ah the son of Me·shez′a·bel of the sons of Ze′rah the son of Judah was at the side of the king for every matter of the people.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter11_verse25"></a><b><sup>25 </sup></b>And as regards the settlements in their fields, there were some of the sons of Judah that dwelt in Kir′i·ath-ar′ba and its dependent towns and in Di′bon and its dependent towns and in Je·kab′ze·el and its settlements, <a id="chapter11_verse26"></a><b><sup>26 </sup></b>and in Jesh′u·a and in Mo·la′dah and in Beth-pel′et <a id="chapter11_verse27"></a><b><sup>27 </sup></b>and in Ha′zar-shu′al and in Be′er-she′ba and its dependent towns <a id="chapter11_verse28"></a><b><sup>28 </sup></b>and in Zik′lag and in Me·co′nah and its dependent towns <a id="chapter11_verse29"></a><b><sup>29 </sup></b>and in En-rim′mon and in Zo′rah and in Jar′muth, <a id="page655"></a><a id="chapter11_verse30"></a><b><sup>30 </sup></b>Za·no′ah, A·dul′lam and their settlements, La′chish and its fields, A·ze′kah and its dependent towns. And they took up camping from Be′er-she′ba clear to the valley of Hin′nom.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter11_verse31"></a><b><sup>31 </sup></b>And the sons of Benjamin were from Ge′ba, Mich′mash and Ai′ja and Beth′el and its dependent towns, <a id="chapter11_verse32"></a><b><sup>32 </sup></b>An′a·thoth, Nob, A·na·ni′ah, <a id="chapter11_verse33"></a><b><sup>33 </sup></b>Ha′zor, Ra′mah, Git′ta·im, <a id="chapter11_verse34"></a><b><sup>34 </sup></b>Ha′did, Ze·bo′im, Ne·bal′lat, <a id="chapter11_verse35"></a><b><sup>35 </sup></b>Lod and O′no, the valley of the craftsmen. <a id="chapter11_verse36"></a><b><sup>36 </sup></b>And of the Levites there were divisions of Judah for Benjamin.</p>
</body>
</html>
