<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="application/xhtml+xml; charset=utf-8" />
<title>Esther 7</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/bi12.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
<p class="w_biblebookname">Esther</p><p class="sb"><a id="chapter7"></a><a id="chapter7_verse1"></a><span class="w_ch"><b>7 </b></span>Then the king and Ha′man came in to banquet with Esther the queen. <a id="chapter7_verse2"></a><b><sup>2 </sup></b>The king now said to Esther also on the second day during the banquet of wine: “What is your petition, O Esther the queen? Let it even be given to you. And what is your request? To the half of the kingship—let it even be done!” <a id="chapter7_verse3"></a><b><sup>3 </sup></b>At this Esther the queen answered and said: “If I have found favor in your eyes, O king, and if to the king it does seem good, let there be given me my own soul at my petition and my people at my request. <a id="chapter7_verse4"></a><b><sup>4 </sup></b>For we have been sold, I and my people, to be annihilated, killed and destroyed. Now if we had been sold for mere men slaves and for mere maidservants, I should have kept silent. But the distress is not appropriate when with damage to the king.”</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter7_verse5"></a><b><sup>5 </sup></b>King A·has·u·e′rus now said, yes, he went on to say to Esther the queen: “Who is this, and just where is the one who has emboldened himself to do that way?” <a id="chapter7_verse6"></a><b><sup>6 </sup></b>Then Esther said: “The man, the adversary and enemy, is this bad Ha′man.”</p>
<p class="sb">As for Ha′man, he became terrified because of the king and the queen. <a id="chapter7_verse7"></a><b><sup>7 </sup></b>As for the king, he rose up in his rage from the banquet of wine to go to the garden of the palace; and Ha′man himself stood up to make request for his soul from Esther the queen, for he saw that bad had been determined against him by the king. <a id="chapter7_verse8"></a><b><sup>8 </sup></b>And the king himself returned from the garden of the palace to the house of the wine banquet; and Ha′man was fallen upon the couch on which Esther was. Consequently the king said: “Is there also to be a raping of the queen, with me in the house?” The word itself went out of the king’s mouth, and Ha′man’s face they covered. <a id="chapter7_verse9"></a><b><sup>9 </sup></b>Har·bo′na, one of the <a id="page666"></a>court officials before the king, now said: “Also, there is the stake that Ha′man made for Mor′de·cai, who had spoken good concerning the king, standing in Ha′man’s house—fifty cubits high.” At that the king said: “Y<span class="smcap">OU </span>men, hang him on it.” <a id="chapter7_verse10"></a><b><sup>10 </sup></b>And they proceeded to hang Ha′man on the stake that he had prepared for Mor′de·cai; and the king’s rage itself subsided.</p>
</body>
</html>
