<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="application/xhtml+xml; charset=utf-8" />
<title>Job 37</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/bi12.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
<p class="w_biblebookname">Job</p><p class="sl"><a id="chapter37"></a><a id="chapter37_verse1"></a><span class="w_ch"><b>37 </b></span>“Indeed at this my heart begins to tremble,</p>
<p class="sz">And it leaps up from its place.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter37_verse2"></a> <b><sup>2 </sup></b>Listen attentively, <span class="smcap">YOU </span>men, to the rumbling of his voice,</p>
<p class="sz">And the growling that goes forth from his mouth.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter37_verse3"></a> <b><sup>3 </sup></b>Under the whole heavens he lets it loose,</p>
<p class="sz">And his lightning is to the extremities of the earth.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter37_verse4"></a> <b><sup>4 </sup></b>After it a sound roars;</p>
<p class="sz">He thunders with the sound of his superiority,</p>
<p class="sz">And he does not hold them back when his voice is heard.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter37_verse5"></a> <b><sup>5 </sup></b>God thunders with his voice in a wonderful way,</p>
<p class="sz">Doing great things that we cannot know.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter37_verse6"></a> <b><sup>6 </sup></b>For to the snow he says, ‘Fall earthward,’</p>
<p class="sz">And to the downpour of rain, even to the downpour of his strong rains.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter37_verse7"></a> <b><sup>7 </sup></b>On the hand of every earthling man he puts a seal</p>
<p class="sz">For every mortal man to know his work.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter37_verse8"></a> <b><sup>8 </sup></b>And the wild beast comes into the ambush,</p>
<p class="sz">And in its hiding places it dwells.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter37_verse9"></a> <b><sup>9 </sup></b>Out of the interior room comes the storm wind</p>
<p class="sz">And out of the north winds the cold.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter37_verse10"></a><b><sup>10 </sup></b>By the breath of God the ice is given</p>
<p class="sz">And the breadth of waters is under constraint.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter37_verse11"></a><b><sup>11 </sup></b>Yes, with moisture he burdens the cloud,</p>
<p class="sz">His light scatters the cloud mass,</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter37_verse12"></a><b><sup>12 </sup></b>And it is being turned round about by his steering them for their performance</p>
<p class="sz">Wherever he commands them upon the face of the productive land of the earth.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter37_verse13"></a><b><sup>13 </sup></b>Whether for a rod or for his land</p>
<p class="sz">Or for loving-kindness, he makes it produce effects.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter37_verse14"></a><b><sup>14 </sup></b>Do give ear to this, O Job;</p>
<p class="sz">Stand still and show yourself attentive to the wonderful works of God.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter37_verse15"></a><b><sup>15 </sup></b>Do you know when God laid an appointment upon them,</p>
<p class="sz">And when he caused the light of his cloud to beam?</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter37_verse16"></a><b><sup>16 </sup></b>Do you know about the poisings of the cloud,</p>
<p class="sz">The wonderful works of the One perfect in knowledge?</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter37_verse17"></a><b><sup>17 </sup></b>How your garments are hot</p>
<p class="sz">When the earth shows quietness from the south?</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter37_verse18"></a><b><sup>18 </sup></b>With him can you beat out the skies</p>
<p class="sz">Hard like a molten mirror?</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter37_verse19"></a><b><sup>19 </sup></b>Let us know what we should say to him;</p>
<p class="sz">We cannot produce words because of darkness.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter37_verse20"></a><b><sup>20 </sup></b>Should it be related to him that I would speak?</p>
<p class="sz">Or has any man said that it will be communicated?</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter37_verse21"></a><b><sup>21 </sup></b>And now they do not really see the light;</p>
<p class="sz">It is brilliant in the skies,</p>
<p class="sz">When a wind itself has passed by and proceeded to cleanse them.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter37_verse22"></a><b><sup>22 </sup></b>Out of the north golden splendor comes.</p>
<p class="sz"><a id="page709"></a>Upon God dignity is fear-inspiring.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter37_verse23"></a><b><sup>23 </sup></b>As for the Almighty, we have not found him out;</p>
<p class="sz">He is exalted in power,</p>
<p class="sz">And justice and abundance of righteousness he will not belittle.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter37_verse24"></a><b><sup>24 </sup></b>Therefore let men fear him.</p>
<p class="sz">He does not regard any who are wise in their own heart.”</p>
</body>
</html>
