<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="application/xhtml+xml; charset=utf-8" />
<title>Job 28</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/bi12.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
<p class="w_biblebookname">Job</p><p class="sl"><a id="page697"></a><a id="chapter28"></a><a id="chapter28_verse1"></a><span class="w_ch"><b>28 </b></span>“Indeed, for silver there exists a place to find it</p>
<p class="sz">And a place for gold that they refine;</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter28_verse2"></a> <b><sup>2 </sup></b>Iron itself is taken from the very dust</p>
<p class="sz">And from stone copper is being poured out.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter28_verse3"></a> <b><sup>3 </sup></b>An end to the darkness he has set;</p>
<p class="sz">And to every limit he is searching out</p>
<p class="sz">Stone in the gloom and deep shadow.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter28_verse4"></a> <b><sup>4 </sup></b>He has sunk a shaft far from where people reside as aliens,</p>
<p class="sz">Places forgotten far from the foot;</p>
<p class="sz">Some of mortal men have swung down, they have dangled.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter28_verse5"></a> <b><sup>5 </sup></b>As for the earth, out of it food goes forth;</p>
<p class="sz">But underneath it, it has been upturned as if by fire.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter28_verse6"></a> <b><sup>6 </sup></b>Its stones are the place of the sapphire,</p>
<p class="sz">And it has gold dust.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter28_verse7"></a> <b><sup>7 </sup></b>A pathway—no bird of prey has known it,</p>
<p class="sz">Nor has the eye of a black kite caught sight of it.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter28_verse8"></a> <b><sup>8 </sup></b>The majestic wild beasts have not trodden it down solid;</p>
<p class="sz">The young lion has not paced over it.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter28_verse9"></a> <b><sup>9 </sup></b>Upon the flint he has thrust out his hand;</p>
<p class="sz">He has overthrown mountains from their root;</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter28_verse10"></a><b><sup>10 </sup></b>Into the rocks he has channeled water-filled galleries,</p>
<p class="sz">And all precious things his eye has seen.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter28_verse11"></a><b><sup>11 </sup></b>The places from which rivers trickled he has dammed up,</p>
<p class="sz">And the concealed thing he brings forth to the light.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter28_verse12"></a><b><sup>12 </sup></b>But wisdom—where can it be found,</p>
<p class="sz">And where, now, is the place of understanding?</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter28_verse13"></a><b><sup>13 </sup></b>Mortal man has not come to know its valuation,</p>
<p class="sz">And it is not found in the land of those living.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter28_verse14"></a><b><sup>14 </sup></b>The watery deep itself has said,</p>
<p class="sz">‘It is not in me!’</p>
<p class="sz">The sea too has said, ‘It is not with me!’</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter28_verse15"></a><b><sup>15 </sup></b>Pure gold cannot be given in exchange for it,</p>
<p class="sz">And silver cannot be weighed out as its price.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter28_verse16"></a><b><sup>16 </sup></b>It cannot be paid for with gold of O′phir,</p>
<p class="sz">With the rare onyx stone and the sapphire.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter28_verse17"></a><b><sup>17 </sup></b>Gold and glass cannot be compared to it,</p>
<p class="sz">Nor is any vessel of refined gold an exchange for it.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter28_verse18"></a><b><sup>18 </sup></b>Coral and rock crystal themselves will not be mentioned,</p>
<p class="sz">But a bagful of wisdom is worth more than one full of pearls.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter28_verse19"></a><b><sup>19 </sup></b>The topaz of Cush cannot be compared to it;</p>
<p class="sz">It cannot be paid for even with gold in its purity.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter28_verse20"></a><b><sup>20 </sup></b>But wisdom itself—from where does it come,</p>
<p class="sz">And where, now, is the place of understanding?</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter28_verse21"></a><b><sup>21 </sup></b>It has been hidden even from the eyes of everyone alive,</p>
<p class="sz">And from the flying creatures of the heavens it has been concealed.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter28_verse22"></a><b><sup>22 </sup></b>Destruction and death themselves have said,</p>
<p class="sz">‘With our ears we have heard a report of it.’</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter28_verse23"></a><b><sup>23 </sup></b>God is the One who has understood its way,</p>
<p class="sz">And he himself has known its place,</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter28_verse24"></a><b><sup>24 </sup></b>For he himself looks to the very ends of the earth;</p>
<p class="sz">Under the whole heavens he sees,</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter28_verse25"></a><b><sup>25 </sup></b>To make a weight for the wind,</p>
<p class="sz"><a id="page698"></a>While he has proportioned the waters themselves by a measure;</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter28_verse26"></a><b><sup>26 </sup></b>When he made for the rain a regulation,</p>
<p class="sz">And a way for the thunderous storm cloud,</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter28_verse27"></a><b><sup>27 </sup></b>Then it was that he saw wisdom and proceeded to tell about it;</p>
<p class="sz">He prepared it and also searched it through.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter28_verse28"></a><b><sup>28 </sup></b>And he went on to say to man,</p>
<p class="sz">‘Look! The fear of Jehovah—that is wisdom,</p>
<p class="sz">And to turn away from bad is understanding.’”</p>
</body>
</html>
