<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="application/xhtml+xml; charset=utf-8" />
<title>Job 35</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/bi12.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
<p class="w_biblebookname">Job</p><p class="sb"><a id="chapter35"></a><a id="chapter35_verse1"></a><span class="w_ch"><b>35 </b></span>And E·li′hu continued answering and saying:</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter35_verse2"></a> <b><sup>2 </sup></b>“Is this what you have regarded as justice?</p>
<p class="sz">You have said, ‘My righteousness is more than God’s.’</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter35_verse3"></a> <b><sup>3 </sup></b>For you say, ‘Of what use is it to you?</p>
<p class="sz">What benefit do I have more than by my sinning?’</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter35_verse4"></a> <b><sup>4 </sup></b>I myself shall reply to you</p>
<p class="sz">And to your companions with you.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter35_verse5"></a> <b><sup>5 </sup></b>Look up to heaven and see,</p>
<p class="sz">And behold the clouds, that they are indeed higher than you.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter35_verse6"></a> <b><sup>6 </sup></b>If you actually sin, what do you accomplish against him?</p>
<p class="sz">And if your revolts actually increase, what do you do to him?</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter35_verse7"></a> <b><sup>7 </sup></b>If you are really in the right, what do you give him,</p>
<p class="sz">Or what does he receive from your own hand?</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter35_verse8"></a> <b><sup>8 </sup></b>Your wickedness may be against a man like you,</p>
<p class="sz">And your righteousness to a son of earthling man.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter35_verse9"></a> <b><sup>9 </sup></b>Because of the multitude of oppressions they keep calling for aid;</p>
<p class="sz">They keep crying for help because of the arm of the great ones.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter35_verse10"></a><b><sup>10 </sup></b>And yet no one has said, ‘Where is God my Grand Maker,</p>
<p class="sz">The One giving melodies in the night?’</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter35_verse11"></a><b><sup>11 </sup></b>He is the One teaching us more than the beasts of the earth,</p>
<p class="sz">And he makes us wiser than even the flying creatures of the heavens.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter35_verse12"></a><b><sup>12 </sup></b>There they keep crying out, but he does not answer,</p>
<p class="sz">Because of the pride of the bad ones.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter35_verse13"></a><b><sup>13 </sup></b>Only the untruth God does not hear,</p>
<p class="sz">And the Almighty himself does not behold it.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter35_verse14"></a><b><sup>14 </sup></b>How much less, then, when you say you do not behold him!</p>
<p class="sz">The legal case is before him, and so you should wait anxiously for him.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter35_verse15"></a><b><sup>15 </sup></b>And now because his anger has not called for an accounting,</p>
<p class="sz">He has also not taken note of the extreme rashness.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter35_verse16"></a><b><sup>16 </sup></b>And Job himself opens his mouth wide simply for nothing;</p>
<p class="sz">Without knowledge he multiplies mere words.”</p>
</body>
</html>
