<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="application/xhtml+xml; charset=utf-8" />
<title>Job 6</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/bi12.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
<p class="w_biblebookname">Job</p><p class="sb"><a id="chapter6"></a><a id="chapter6_verse1"></a><span class="w_ch"><b>6 </b></span>And Job proceeded to answer and say:</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter6_verse2"></a> <b><sup>2 </sup></b>“O that my vexation were altogether weighed,</p>
<p class="sz">And that at the same time my adversity they would put on scales themselves!</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter6_verse3"></a> <b><sup>3 </sup></b>For now it is heavier even than the sands of the seas.</p>
<p class="sz">That is why my own words have been wild talk.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter6_verse4"></a> <b><sup>4 </sup></b>For the arrows of the Almighty are with me,</p>
<p class="sz">The venom of which my spirit is drinking;</p>
<p class="sz">The terrors from God range themselves up against me.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter6_verse5"></a> <b><sup>5 </sup></b>Will a zebra cry out over grass,</p>
<p class="sz">Or a bull low over its fodder?</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter6_verse6"></a> <b><sup>6 </sup></b>Will tasteless things be eaten without salt,</p>
<p class="sz">Or is there any taste in the slimy juice of marshmallow?</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter6_verse7"></a> <b><sup>7 </sup></b>My soul has refused to touch anything.</p>
<p class="sz">They are like disease in my food.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter6_verse8"></a> <b><sup>8 </sup></b>O that my request would come</p>
<p class="sz">And that God would grant even my hope!</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter6_verse9"></a> <b><sup>9 </sup></b>And that God would go ahead and crush me,</p>
<p class="sz"><a id="page675"></a>That he would release his hand and cut me off!</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter6_verse10"></a><b><sup>10 </sup></b>Even it would still be my comfort;</p>
<p class="sz">And I should leap for joy at my labor pains,</p>
<p class="sz">Though he would have no compassion, for I have not hidden the sayings of the Holy One.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter6_verse11"></a><b><sup>11 </sup></b>What is my power, that I should keep waiting?</p>
<p class="sz">And what is my end, that I should keep prolonging my soul?</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter6_verse12"></a><b><sup>12 </sup></b>Is my power the power of stones?</p>
<p class="sz">Or is my flesh of copper?</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter6_verse13"></a><b><sup>13 </sup></b>Is it that self-assistance is not in me,</p>
<p class="sz">And effectual working itself has been chased away from me?</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter6_verse14"></a><b><sup>14 </sup></b>As regards anyone who withholds loving-kindness from his own fellow,</p>
<p class="sz">He will also leave off even the fear of the Almighty.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter6_verse15"></a><b><sup>15 </sup></b>My own brothers have dealt treacherously, like a winter torrent,</p>
<p class="sz">Like the channel of winter torrents that keep passing away.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter6_verse16"></a><b><sup>16 </sup></b>They are dark from ice,</p>
<p class="sz">Upon them snow hides itself.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter6_verse17"></a><b><sup>17 </sup></b>In due season they become waterless, they have been silenced;</p>
<p class="sz">When it grows hot they are dried up from their place.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter6_verse18"></a><b><sup>18 </sup></b>The paths of their way are turned aside;</p>
<p class="sz">They go up into the empty place and perish.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter6_verse19"></a><b><sup>19 </sup></b>The caravans of Te′ma have looked,</p>
<p class="sz">The traveling company of Sa·be′ans have waited for them.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter6_verse20"></a><b><sup>20 </sup></b>They certainly are ashamed because they had trusted;</p>
<p class="sz">They have come clear to the place and they get disappointed.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter6_verse21"></a><b><sup>21 </sup></b>For now <span class="smcap">YOU </span>men have amounted to nothing;</p>
<p class="sz">Y<span class="smcap">OU </span>see terror, and <span class="smcap">YOU </span>become afraid.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter6_verse22"></a><b><sup>22 </sup></b>Is it because I have said, ‘G<span class="smcap">IVE </span>me something,</p>
<p class="sz">Or from some of the power of <span class="smcap">YOU </span>men make a present in my behalf;</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter6_verse23"></a><b><sup>23 </sup></b>And rescue me out of the hand of an adversary,</p>
<p class="sz">And out of the hand of tyrants <span class="smcap">YOU </span>men should redeem me’?</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter6_verse24"></a><b><sup>24 </sup></b>Instruct me, and I, for my part, shall be silent;</p>
<p class="sz">And what mistake I have committed make me understand.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter6_verse25"></a><b><sup>25 </sup></b>The sayings of uprightness have been—O not painful!</p>
<p class="sz">But what does reproving on the part of <span class="smcap">YOU </span>men reprove?</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter6_verse26"></a><b><sup>26 </sup></b>Is it to reprove words that <span class="smcap">YOU </span>men scheme,</p>
<p class="sz">When the sayings of one in despair are for mere wind?</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter6_verse27"></a><b><sup>27 </sup></b>How much more will <span class="smcap">YOU </span>cast lots even over someone fatherless,</p>
<p class="sz">And barter over <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>companion!</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter6_verse28"></a><b><sup>28 </sup></b>And now <span class="smcap">GO </span>ahead, pay attention to me,</p>
<p class="sz">And see whether I shall lie to <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>very faces.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter6_verse29"></a><b><sup>29 </sup></b>Return, please—let no unrighteousness arise—</p>
<p class="sz">Yes, return—my righteousness is yet in it.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter6_verse30"></a><b><sup>30 </sup></b>Is there unrighteousness on my tongue,</p>
<p class="sz">Or does my own palate not discern adversity?</p>
</body>
</html>
