<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="application/xhtml+xml; charset=utf-8" />
<title>Job 29</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/bi12.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
<p class="w_biblebookname">Job</p><p class="sb"><a id="chapter29"></a><a id="chapter29_verse1"></a><span class="w_ch"><b>29 </b></span>And Job proceeded again to lift up his proverbial utterance and went on to say:</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter29_verse2"></a> <b><sup>2 </sup></b>“O that I were as in the lunar months of long ago,</p>
<p class="sz">As in the days when God was guarding me;</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter29_verse3"></a> <b><sup>3 </sup></b>When he caused his lamp to shine upon my head,</p>
<p class="sz">When I would walk through darkness by his light;</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter29_verse4"></a> <b><sup>4 </sup></b>Just as I happened to be in the days of my prime,</p>
<p class="sz">When intimacy with God was at my tent;</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter29_verse5"></a> <b><sup>5 </sup></b>When the Almighty was yet with me,</p>
<p class="sz">When my attendants were all around me!</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter29_verse6"></a> <b><sup>6 </sup></b>When I washed my steps in butter,</p>
<p class="sz">And the rock kept pouring out streams of oil for me;</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter29_verse7"></a> <b><sup>7 </sup></b>When I went forth to the gate by the town,</p>
<p class="sz">In the public square I would prepare my seat!</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter29_verse8"></a> <b><sup>8 </sup></b>The boys saw me and hid themselves,</p>
<p class="sz">And even the aged ones rose up, they stood.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter29_verse9"></a> <b><sup>9 </sup></b>Princes themselves restrained words,</p>
<p class="sz">And the palm they would put upon their mouth.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter29_verse10"></a><b><sup>10 </sup></b>The voice of the leaders themselves was hidden,</p>
<p class="sz">And their very tongue cleaved to their palate.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter29_verse11"></a><b><sup>11 </sup></b>For the ear itself listened and proceeded to pronounce me happy,</p>
<p class="sz">And the eye itself saw and proceeded to bear witness for me.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter29_verse12"></a><b><sup>12 </sup></b>For I would rescue the afflicted one crying for help,</p>
<p class="sz">And the fatherless boy and anyone that had no helper.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter29_verse13"></a><b><sup>13 </sup></b>The blessing of the one about to perish—upon me it would come,</p>
<p class="sz">And the heart of the widow I would make glad.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter29_verse14"></a><b><sup>14 </sup></b>With righteousness I clothed myself, and it was clothing me.</p>
<p class="sz">My justice was like a sleeveless coat—and a turban.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter29_verse15"></a><b><sup>15 </sup></b>Eyes I became to the blind one;</p>
<p class="sz">And feet to the lame one I was.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter29_verse16"></a><b><sup>16 </sup></b>I was a real father to the poor ones;</p>
<p class="sz">And the legal case of one whom I did not know—I would examine it.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter29_verse17"></a><b><sup>17 </sup></b>And I would break the jawbones of the wrongdoer,</p>
<p class="sz">And from his teeth I would tear away the prey.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter29_verse18"></a><b><sup>18 </sup></b>And I used to say, ‘Within my nest I shall expire,</p>
<p class="sz">And like the grains of sand I shall multiply my days.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter29_verse19"></a><b><sup>19 </sup></b>My root is opened for the waters,</p>
<p class="sz">And dew itself will stay overnight upon my bough.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter29_verse20"></a><b><sup>20 </sup></b>My glory is fresh with me,</p>
<p class="sz">And my bow in my hand will shoot repeatedly.’</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter29_verse21"></a><b><sup>21 </sup></b>To me they listened; and they waited,</p>
<p class="sz">And they would keep silent for my counsel.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter29_verse22"></a><b><sup>22 </sup></b>After my word they would not speak again,</p>
<p class="sz">And upon them my word would drip.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="page699"></a><a id="chapter29_verse23"></a><b><sup>23 </sup></b>And they waited for me as for the rain,</p>
<p class="sz">And their mouth they opened wide for the spring rain.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter29_verse24"></a><b><sup>24 </sup></b>I would smile at them—they would not believe it—</p>
<p class="sz">And the light of my face they would not cast down.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter29_verse25"></a><b><sup>25 </sup></b>I would choose the way for them, and I was sitting as head;</p>
<p class="sz">And I resided as a king among his troops,</p>
<p class="sl">As one who comforts the mourners.</p>
</body>
</html>
