<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="application/xhtml+xml; charset=utf-8" />
<title>Job 12</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/bi12.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
<p class="w_biblebookname">Job</p><p class="sb"><a id="chapter12"></a><a id="chapter12_verse1"></a><span class="w_ch"><b>12 </b></span>And Job proceeded to answer and say:</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter12_verse2"></a> <b><sup>2 </sup></b>“For a fact <span class="smcap">YOU </span>men are the people,</p>
<p class="sz">And with <span class="smcap">YOU </span>wisdom will die out!</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter12_verse3"></a> <b><sup>3 </sup></b>I too have a heart as well as <span class="smcap">YOU</span>.</p>
<p class="sz">I am not inferior to <span class="smcap">YOU</span>,</p>
<p class="sz">And with whom are there not things like these?</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter12_verse4"></a> <b><sup>4 </sup></b>One who is a laughingstock to his fellowman I become,</p>
<p class="sz">One calling to God that he should answer him.</p>
<p class="sz">A laughingstock is the righteous, unblamable one.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter12_verse5"></a> <b><sup>5 </sup></b>In thought, the carefree one has contempt for extinction itself;</p>
<p class="sz">It is made ready for those of wobbling feet.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter12_verse6"></a> <b><sup>6 </sup></b>The tents of the despoilers are unworried,</p>
<p class="sz">And the ones enraging God have the safety</p>
<p class="sz">Belonging to one who has brought a god in his hand.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter12_verse7"></a> <b><sup>7 </sup></b>However, ask, please, the domestic animals, and they will instruct you;</p>
<p class="sz">Also the winged creatures of the heavens, and they will tell you.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter12_verse8"></a> <b><sup>8 </sup></b>Or show your concern to the earth, and it will instruct you;</p>
<p class="sz">And the fishes of the sea will declare it to you.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter12_verse9"></a> <b><sup>9 </sup></b>Who among all these does not well know</p>
<p class="sz">That the hand of Jehovah itself has done this,</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter12_verse10"></a><b><sup>10 </sup></b>In whose hand is the soul of everyone alive</p>
<p class="sz">And the spirit of all flesh of man?</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter12_verse11"></a><b><sup>11 </sup></b>Does not the ear itself test out words</p>
<p class="sz">As the palate tastes food?</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter12_verse12"></a><b><sup>12 </sup></b>Is there not wisdom among the aged</p>
<p class="sz">And understanding in length of days?</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter12_verse13"></a><b><sup>13 </sup></b>With him there are wisdom and mightiness;</p>
<p class="sz">He has counsel and understanding.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter12_verse14"></a><b><sup>14 </sup></b>Look! He tears down, that there may be no building up;</p>
<p class="sz">He makes it shut to man, that it may not be opened up.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter12_verse15"></a><b><sup>15 </sup></b>Look! He puts a restraint upon the waters and they dry up;</p>
<p class="sz">And he sends them, and they change the earth.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter12_verse16"></a><b><sup>16 </sup></b>With him there are strength and practical wisdom;</p>
<p class="sz">To him belong the one making a mistake and the one leading astray;</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter12_verse17"></a><b><sup>17 </sup></b>He is making counselors go barefoot,</p>
<p class="sz">And he makes judges themselves go crazy.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter12_verse18"></a><b><sup>18 </sup></b>The bonds of kings he actually loosens,</p>
<p class="sz">And he binds a belt upon their hips.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter12_verse19"></a><b><sup>19 </sup></b>He is making priests walk barefoot,</p>
<p class="sz">And permanently seated ones he subverts;</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter12_verse20"></a><b><sup>20 </sup></b>He is removing speech from the faithful ones,</p>
<p class="sz">And the sensibleness of old men he takes away;</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter12_verse21"></a><b><sup>21 </sup></b>He is pouring out contempt upon nobles,</p>
<p class="sz">And the girdle of powerful ones he actually weakens;</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter12_verse22"></a><b><sup>22 </sup></b>He is uncovering deep things from the darkness,</p>
<p class="sz">And he brings forth to the light deep shadow;</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter12_verse23"></a><b><sup>23 </sup></b>Making the nations grow great, that he may destroy them;</p>
<p class="sz">Spreading out the nations, that he may lead them away;</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter12_verse24"></a><b><sup>24 </sup></b>Taking away the heart of the <a id="page682"></a>head ones of the people of the land,</p>
<p class="sz">That he may make them wander about in an empty place, where there is no way.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter12_verse25"></a><b><sup>25 </sup></b>They grope in darkness, where there is no light,</p>
<p class="sz">That he may make them wander about like a drunken man.</p>
</body>
</html>
