<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="application/xhtml+xml; charset=utf-8" />
<title>Job 30</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/bi12.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
<p class="w_biblebookname">Job</p><p class="sl"><a id="chapter30"></a><a id="chapter30_verse1"></a><span class="w_ch"><b>30 </b></span>“And now they have laughed at me,</p>
<p class="sz">Those younger in days than I am,</p>
<p class="sp">Whose fathers I would have refused</p>
<p class="sz">To place with the dogs of my flock.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter30_verse2"></a> <b><sup>2 </sup></b>Even the power of their hands—of what use was it to me?</p>
<p class="sz">In them vigor has perished.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter30_verse3"></a> <b><sup>3 </sup></b>Because of want and hunger they are sterile,</p>
<p class="sz">Gnawing at a waterless region,</p>
<p class="sz">Where yesterday there were storm and desolation.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter30_verse4"></a> <b><sup>4 </sup></b>They were plucking the salt herb by the bushes,</p>
<p class="sz">And the root of broom trees was their food.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter30_verse5"></a> <b><sup>5 </sup></b>From the community they would be driven away;</p>
<p class="sz">People would shout at them as at a thief.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter30_verse6"></a> <b><sup>6 </sup></b>They have to reside on the very slope of torrent valleys,</p>
<p class="sz">In holes of the dust and in rocks.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter30_verse7"></a> <b><sup>7 </sup></b>Among the bushes they would cry out;</p>
<p class="sz">Under the nettles they would huddle together.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter30_verse8"></a> <b><sup>8 </sup></b>Sons of the senseless one, also sons of the nameless one,</p>
<p class="sz">They have been scourged out of the land.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter30_verse9"></a> <b><sup>9 </sup></b>And now I have become even the theme of their song,</p>
<p class="sz">And I am to them for a byword.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter30_verse10"></a><b><sup>10 </sup></b>They have detested me, they have kept themselves far from me;</p>
<p class="sz">And from my face they did not hold back their spit.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter30_verse11"></a><b><sup>11 </sup></b>For he loosened my own bowstring and proceeded to humble me,</p>
<p class="sz">And the bridle they left loose on my account.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter30_verse12"></a><b><sup>12 </sup></b>At my right hand they rise up as a brood;</p>
<p class="sz">My feet they have let go,</p>
<p class="sz">But they proceeded to cast up against me their disastrous barriers.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter30_verse13"></a><b><sup>13 </sup></b>They have torn down my roadways;</p>
<p class="sz">They were beneficial only for adversity to me,</p>
<p class="sz">Without their having any helper.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter30_verse14"></a><b><sup>14 </sup></b>As through a wide gap they proceed to come;</p>
<p class="sz">Under a storm they have rolled along.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter30_verse15"></a><b><sup>15 </sup></b>Sudden terrors have been turned upon me;</p>
<p class="sz">My noble bearing is chased like the wind,</p>
<p class="sz">And like a cloud my salvation has passed away.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter30_verse16"></a><b><sup>16 </sup></b>And now my soul is poured out within me;</p>
<p class="sz">Days of affliction take hold upon me.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter30_verse17"></a><b><sup>17 </sup></b>At night my very bones have been bored through and dropped from off me,</p>
<p class="sz">And pains gnawing me do not take any rest.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter30_verse18"></a><b><sup>18 </sup></b>By the abundance of power my garment takes on a change;</p>
<p class="sz">Like the collar of my long garment it engirdles me.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter30_verse19"></a><b><sup>19 </sup></b>He has brought me down to the clay,</p>
<p class="sz">So that I show myself like dust and ashes.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="page700"></a><a id="chapter30_verse20"></a><b><sup>20 </sup></b>I cry to you for help, but you do not answer me;</p>
<p class="sz">I have stood, that you might show yourself attentive to me.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter30_verse21"></a><b><sup>21 </sup></b>You change yourself to become cruel to me;</p>
<p class="sz">With the full might of your hand you harbor animosity toward me.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter30_verse22"></a><b><sup>22 </sup></b>You lift me to the wind, you cause me to ride it;</p>
<p class="sz">Then you dissolve me with a crash.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter30_verse23"></a><b><sup>23 </sup></b>For I well know that to death you will make me turn back,</p>
<p class="sz">And to the house of meeting for everyone living.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter30_verse24"></a><b><sup>24 </sup></b>Only no one thrusts his hand out against a mere heap of ruins,</p>
<p class="sz">Nor during one’s decay is there a cry for help respecting those things.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter30_verse25"></a><b><sup>25 </sup></b>Certainly I have wept for the one having a hard day;</p>
<p class="sz">My soul has grieved for the poor one.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter30_verse26"></a><b><sup>26 </sup></b>Although for good I waited, yet bad came;</p>
<p class="sz">And I kept awaiting the light, but gloom came.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter30_verse27"></a><b><sup>27 </sup></b>My own intestines were made to boil and did not keep silent;</p>
<p class="sz">Days of affliction confronted me.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter30_verse28"></a><b><sup>28 </sup></b>Saddened I walked about when there was no sunlight;</p>
<p class="sz">I got up in the congregation, I kept crying for help.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter30_verse29"></a><b><sup>29 </sup></b>A brother to jackals I became,</p>
<p class="sz">And a companion to the daughters of the ostrich.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter30_verse30"></a><b><sup>30 </sup></b>My very skin became black and dropped off me,</p>
<p class="sz">And my very bones became hot from dryness.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter30_verse31"></a><b><sup>31 </sup></b>And my harp came to be merely for mourning,</p>
<p class="sz">And my pipe for the voice of weeping ones.</p>
</body>
</html>
