<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="application/xhtml+xml; charset=utf-8" />
<title>Job 17</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/bi12.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
<p class="w_biblebookname">Job</p><p class="sl"><a id="chapter17"></a><a id="chapter17_verse1"></a><span class="w_ch"><b>17 </b></span>“My very spirit has been broken, my own days have been extinguished;</p>
<p class="sz">The graveyard is for me.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter17_verse2"></a> <b><sup>2 </sup></b>Certainly there is mockery at me,</p>
<p class="sz">And amid their rebellious behavior my eye lodges.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter17_verse3"></a> <b><sup>3 </sup></b>Please, do put my security with yourself.</p>
<p class="sz">Who else is there that will shake hands with me in pledge?</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter17_verse4"></a> <b><sup>4 </sup></b>For their heart you have closed to discretion.</p>
<p class="sz">That is why you do not exalt them.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter17_verse5"></a> <b><sup>5 </sup></b>He may tell companions to take their shares,</p>
<p class="sz">But the very eyes of his sons will fail.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter17_verse6"></a> <b><sup>6 </sup></b>And he has set me forth as a proverbial saying of peoples,</p>
<p class="sz">So that I become someone into whose face to spit.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter17_verse7"></a> <b><sup>7 </sup></b>And from vexation my eye grows dimmer</p>
<p class="sz">And my members are all of them like the shadow.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter17_verse8"></a> <b><sup>8 </sup></b>Upright people stare in amazement at this,</p>
<p class="sz">And even the innocent one gets excited over the apostate.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter17_verse9"></a> <b><sup>9 </sup></b>The righteous one keeps holding fast to his way,</p>
<p class="sz">And the one with clean hands keeps increasing in strength.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="page687"></a><a id="chapter17_verse10"></a><b><sup>10 </sup></b>However, <span class="smcap">YOU </span>men may all of <span class="smcap">YOU </span>resume. So come on, please,</p>
<p class="sz">As I do not find anyone wise among <span class="smcap">YOU</span>.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter17_verse11"></a><b><sup>11 </sup></b>My own days have passed along, my own plans have been torn apart,</p>
<p class="sz">The wishes of my heart.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter17_verse12"></a><b><sup>12 </sup></b>Night they keep putting for day:</p>
<p class="sz">‘Light is near on account of darkness.’</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter17_verse13"></a><b><sup>13 </sup></b>If I keep waiting, She′ol is my house;</p>
<p class="sz">In the darkness I shall have to spread out my lounge.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter17_verse14"></a><b><sup>14 </sup></b>To the pit I shall have to call out, ‘You are my father!’</p>
<p class="sz">To the maggot, ‘My mother and my sister!’</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter17_verse15"></a><b><sup>15 </sup></b>So where, then, is my hope?</p>
<p class="sz">And my hope—who is it that beholds it?</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter17_verse16"></a><b><sup>16 </sup></b>To the bars of She′ol they will go down,</p>
<p class="sz">When we, all together, must descend to the very dust.”</p>
</body>
</html>
