<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="application/xhtml+xml; charset=utf-8" />
<title>Job 24</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/bi12.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
<p class="w_biblebookname">Job</p><p class="sl"><a id="chapter24"></a><a id="chapter24_verse1"></a><span class="w_ch"><b>24 </b></span>“Why is it that times have not been stored up by the Almighty himself,</p>
<p class="sz">And the very ones knowing him have not beheld his days?</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="page694"></a><a id="chapter24_verse2"></a> <b><sup>2 </sup></b>There are those who move back boundary marks;</p>
<p class="sz">A drove they have snatched away, that they may shepherd it.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter24_verse3"></a> <b><sup>3 </sup></b>They drive off even the male ass of fatherless boys;</p>
<p class="sz">They seize the widow’s bull as a pledge.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter24_verse4"></a> <b><sup>4 </sup></b>They turn aside the poor ones from the way;</p>
<p class="sz">At the same time the afflicted of the earth have kept themselves hidden.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter24_verse5"></a> <b><sup>5 </sup></b>Look! As zebras in the wilderness</p>
<p class="sz">They have gone forth in their activity, looking for food.</p>
<p class="sz">The desert plain gives to each one bread for the boys.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter24_verse6"></a> <b><sup>6 </sup></b>In the field its fodder they harvest,</p>
<p class="sz">And the vineyard of the wicked one they hastily despoil.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter24_verse7"></a> <b><sup>7 </sup></b>Naked, they pass the night without a garment,</p>
<p class="sz">And without any covering in the cold.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter24_verse8"></a> <b><sup>8 </sup></b>From the rainstorm of the mountains they get drenched,</p>
<p class="sz">And because there is no shelter they have to hug a rock.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter24_verse9"></a> <b><sup>9 </sup></b>They snatch away a fatherless boy even from the breast,</p>
<p class="sz">And what is on the afflicted one they take as a pledge.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter24_verse10"></a><b><sup>10 </sup></b>Naked, they have to go about without a garment,</p>
<p class="sz">And, hungry, they have to carry the reaped ears.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter24_verse11"></a><b><sup>11 </sup></b>Between the terrace walls they pass the noontime;</p>
<p class="sz">Winepresses they have to tread, and yet they go thirsty.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter24_verse12"></a><b><sup>12 </sup></b>From out of the city the dying keep groaning,</p>
<p class="sz">And the soul of deadly wounded ones cries for help;</p>
<p class="sz">And God himself considers it not as anything improper.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter24_verse13"></a><b><sup>13 </sup></b>As for them, they proved to be among the rebels against light;</p>
<p class="sz">They did not recognize its ways,</p>
<p class="sz">And they did not dwell in its roadways.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter24_verse14"></a><b><sup>14 </sup></b>At daylight the murderer gets up,</p>
<p class="sz">He proceeds to slay the afflicted and the poor one;</p>
<p class="sz">And during the night he becomes a regular thief.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter24_verse15"></a><b><sup>15 </sup></b>As for the eye of the adulterer, it has watched for evening darkness,</p>
<p class="sz">Saying, ‘No eye will behold me!’</p>
<p class="sz">And over his face he puts a covering.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter24_verse16"></a><b><sup>16 </sup></b>In the darkness he has dug into houses;</p>
<p class="sz">By day they must keep themselves locked in.</p>
<p class="sz">They have not known daylight.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter24_verse17"></a><b><sup>17 </sup></b>For morning is the same as deep shadow for them,</p>
<p class="sz">For they recognize what the sudden terrors of deep shadow are.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter24_verse18"></a><b><sup>18 </sup></b>He is swift on the surface of the waters.</p>
<p class="sz">Their tract of land will be cursed in the earth.</p>
<p class="sz">He will not turn toward the way of the vineyards.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter24_verse19"></a><b><sup>19 </sup></b>The drought, also the heat, snatch away the snow waters;</p>
<p class="sz">So does She′ol those who have sinned!</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter24_verse20"></a><b><sup>20 </sup></b>The womb will forget him, the maggot will sweetly suck him,</p>
<p class="sz">He will be remembered no more.</p>
<p class="sz">And unrighteousness will be broken just like a tree.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter24_verse21"></a><b><sup>21 </sup></b>He is having dealings with a <a id="page695"></a>barren woman who does not bear,</p>
<p class="sz">And with a widow, to whom he does no good.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter24_verse22"></a><b><sup>22 </sup></b>And he will certainly draw away strong people by his power;</p>
<p class="sz">He will rise up and not be sure of his life.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter24_verse23"></a><b><sup>23 </sup></b>He will grant him to become confident that he may support himself;</p>
<p class="sz">And his eyes will be upon their ways.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter24_verse24"></a><b><sup>24 </sup></b>They have become high up a little while, then they are no more,</p>
<p class="sz">And they have been brought low; like everyone else they are plucked off,</p>
<p class="sz">And like the head of an ear of grain they are cut off.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter24_verse25"></a><b><sup>25 </sup></b>So really now, who will make me out a liar</p>
<p class="sz">Or reduce my word to nothing?”</p>
</body>
</html>
