<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="application/xhtml+xml; charset=utf-8" />
<title>Psalm 36</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/bi12.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
<p class="w_biblebookname">Psalms</p><p class="sw">To the director. Of Jehovah’s servant, David.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter36"></a><a id="chapter36_verse1"></a><span class="w_ch"><b>36 </b></span>The utterance of transgression to the wicked one is in the midst of his heart;</p>
<p class="sz">There is no dread of God in front of his eyes.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter36_verse2"></a> <b><sup>2 </sup></b>For he has acted too smoothly to himself in his own eyes</p>
<p class="sz">To find out his error so as to hate it.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter36_verse3"></a> <b><sup>3 </sup></b>The words of his mouth are hurtfulness and deception;</p>
<p class="sz">He has ceased to have insight for doing good.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter36_verse4"></a> <b><sup>4 </sup></b>Hurtfulness is what he keeps scheming upon his bed.</p>
<p class="sz">He stations himself on a way that is not good.</p>
<p class="sz">What is bad he does not reject.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter36_verse5"></a> <b><sup>5 </sup></b>O Jehovah, your loving-kindness is in the heavens;</p>
<p class="sz">Your faithfulness is up to the clouds.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter36_verse6"></a> <b><sup>6 </sup></b>Your righteousness is like mountains of God;</p>
<p class="sz">Your judicial decision is a vast watery deep.</p>
<p class="sz">Man and beast you save, O Jehovah.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter36_verse7"></a> <b><sup>7 </sup></b>How precious your loving-kindness is, O God!</p>
<p class="sz">And in the shadow of your wings the sons of men themselves take refuge.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter36_verse8"></a> <b><sup>8 </sup></b>They drink their fill of the fatness of your house;</p>
<p class="sz">And of the torrent of your pleasures you cause them to drink.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter36_verse9"></a> <b><sup>9 </sup></b>For with you is the source of life;</p>
<p class="sz">By light from you we can see light.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter36_verse10"></a><b><sup>10 </sup></b>Continue your loving-kindness to those knowing you,</p>
<p class="sz">And your righteousness to those upright in heart.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter36_verse11"></a><b><sup>11 </sup></b>O may not the foot of haughtiness come against me;</p>
<p class="sz">As for the hand of wicked people, let it not make me a wanderer.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter36_verse12"></a><b><sup>12 </sup></b>There the practicers of hurtfulness have fallen;</p>
<p class="sz">They have been pushed <a id="page742"></a>down and have been unable to get up.</p>
</body>
</html>
