<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="application/xhtml+xml; charset=utf-8" />
<title>Psalm 64</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/bi12.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
<p class="w_biblebookname">Psalms</p><p class="sw">To the director. A melody of David.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter64"></a><a id="chapter64_verse1"></a><span class="w_ch"><b>64 </b></span>Hear, O God, my voice in my concern.</p>
<p class="sz">From the dreadfulness of the enemy may you safeguard my life.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter64_verse2"></a> <b><sup>2 </sup></b>May you conceal me from the confidential talk of evildoers,</p>
<p class="sz">From the tumult of practicers of hurtfulness,</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter64_verse3"></a> <b><sup>3 </sup></b>Who have sharpened their tongue just like a sword,</p>
<p class="sz">Who have aimed their arrow, bitter speech,</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter64_verse4"></a> <b><sup>4 </sup></b>To shoot from concealed places at someone blameless.</p>
<p class="sz">All of a sudden they shoot at him and do not fear.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter64_verse5"></a> <b><sup>5 </sup></b>They hold themselves down to bad speech;</p>
<p class="sz">They make statements about hiding traps.</p>
<p class="sz">They have said: “Who sees them?”</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter64_verse6"></a> <b><sup>6 </sup></b>They keep searching out unrighteous things;</p>
<p class="sz">They have hidden a shrewd device well searched out,</p>
<p class="sz">And the inward part of each one, even his heart, is deep.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter64_verse7"></a> <b><sup>7 </sup></b>But God will shoot at them with an arrow suddenly.</p>
<p class="sz">Wounds have resulted to them,</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter64_verse8"></a> <b><sup>8 </sup></b>And they cause one to stumble.</p>
<p class="sz">But their tongue is against their own selves.</p>
<p class="sz">All those looking upon them will shake their head,</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter64_verse9"></a> <b><sup>9 </sup></b>And all earthling men will become afraid;</p>
<p class="sz">And they will tell of the activity of God,</p>
<p class="sz">And they will certainly have insight into his work.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter64_verse10"></a><b><sup>10 </sup></b>And the righteous one will rejoice in Jehovah and will indeed take refuge in him;</p>
<p class="sz">And all the upright in heart will boast.</p>
</body>
</html>
