<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="application/xhtml+xml; charset=utf-8" />
<title>Psalm 29</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/bi12.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
<p class="w_biblebookname">Psalms</p><p class="sw">A melody of David.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter29"></a><a id="chapter29_verse1"></a><span class="w_ch"><b>29 </b></span>Ascribe to Jehovah, O <span class="smcap">YOU </span>sons of strong ones,</p>
<p class="sz">Ascribe to Jehovah glory and strength.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter29_verse2"></a> <b><sup>2 </sup></b>Ascribe to Jehovah the glory of his name.</p>
<p class="sz">Bow down to Jehovah in holy adornment.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter29_verse3"></a> <b><sup>3 </sup></b>The voice of Jehovah is over the waters;</p>
<p class="sz">The glorious God himself has thundered.</p>
<p class="sz">Jehovah is over many waters.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter29_verse4"></a> <b><sup>4 </sup></b>The voice of Jehovah is powerful;</p>
<p class="sz">The voice of Jehovah is splendid.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="page735"></a><a id="chapter29_verse5"></a> <b><sup>5 </sup></b>The voice of Jehovah is breaking the cedars;</p>
<p class="sz">Yes, Jehovah breaks the cedars of Leb′a·non in pieces,</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter29_verse6"></a> <b><sup>6 </sup></b>And he makes them skip about like a calf,</p>
<p class="sz">Leb′a·non and Sir′i·on like the sons of wild bulls.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter29_verse7"></a> <b><sup>7 </sup></b>The voice of Jehovah is hewing with the flames of fire;</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter29_verse8"></a> <b><sup>8 </sup></b>The voice of Jehovah itself makes the wilderness writhe,</p>
<p class="sz">Jehovah makes the wilderness of Ka′desh writhe.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter29_verse9"></a> <b><sup>9 </sup></b>The voice of Jehovah itself makes the hinds writhe with birth pains</p>
<p class="sz">And strips bare the forests.</p>
<p class="sz">And in his temple each one is saying: “Glory!”</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter29_verse10"></a><b><sup>10 </sup></b>Upon the deluge Jehovah has seated himself;</p>
<p class="sz">And Jehovah sits as king to time indefinite.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter29_verse11"></a><b><sup>11 </sup></b>Jehovah himself will give strength indeed to his people.</p>
<p class="sz">Jehovah himself will bless his people with peace.</p>
</body>
</html>
