<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="application/xhtml+xml; charset=utf-8" />
<title>Psalm 106</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/bi12.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
<p class="w_biblebookname">Psalms</p><p class="sl"><a id="chapter106"></a><a id="chapter106_verse1"></a><span class="w_ch"><b>106 </b></span>Praise Jah, <span class="smcap">YOU </span>people!</p>
<p class="sz">Give thanks to Jehovah, for he is good;</p>
<p class="sz">For his loving-kindness is to time indefinite.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter106_verse2"></a> <b><sup>2 </sup></b>Who can utter the mighty performances of Jehovah,</p>
<p class="sz">Or can make all his praise to be heard?</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter106_verse3"></a> <b><sup>3 </sup></b>Happy are those observing justice,</p>
<p class="sz">Doing righteousness all the time.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter106_verse4"></a> <b><sup>4 </sup></b>Remember me, O Jehovah, with the goodwill toward your people.</p>
<p class="sz">Take care of me with your salvation,</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter106_verse5"></a> <b><sup>5 </sup></b>That I may see the goodness to your chosen ones,</p>
<p class="sz">That I may rejoice with the rejoicing of your nation,</p>
<p class="sl">That I may make my boast with your inheritance.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter106_verse6"></a> <b><sup>6 </sup></b>We have sinned just the same as our forefathers;</p>
<p class="sz">We have done wrong; we have acted wickedly.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter106_verse7"></a> <b><sup>7 </sup></b>As for our forefathers in Egypt,</p>
<p class="sz">They did not show any insight into your wonderful works.</p>
<p class="sp">They did not remember the abundance of your grand loving-kindness,</p>
<p class="sz">But they behaved rebelliously at the sea, by the Red Sea.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter106_verse8"></a> <b><sup>8 </sup></b>And he proceeded to save them for the sake of his name,</p>
<p class="sz">So as to make his mightiness known.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter106_verse9"></a> <b><sup>9 </sup></b>Accordingly he rebuked the Red Sea, and it was gradually dried up;</p>
<p class="sz">And he went walking them through the watery deep as through the wilderness;</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter106_verse10"></a><b><sup>10 </sup></b>And so he saved them from the hand of the hater</p>
<p class="sz">And reclaimed them from the hand of the enemy.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter106_verse11"></a><b><sup>11 </sup></b>And the waters came covering their adversaries;</p>
<p class="sz">Not one of them was left.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter106_verse12"></a><b><sup>12 </sup></b>Then they had faith in his word;</p>
<p class="sz">They began to sing his praise.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter106_verse13"></a><b><sup>13 </sup></b>Quickly they forgot his works;</p>
<p class="sz">They did not wait for his counsel.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter106_verse14"></a><b><sup>14 </sup></b>But they showed their selfish desire in the wilderness</p>
<p class="sz">And went putting God to the proof in the desert.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter106_verse15"></a><b><sup>15 </sup></b>And he proceeded to give them their request</p>
<p class="sz">And to send a wasting disease into their soul.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="page803"></a><a id="chapter106_verse16"></a><b><sup>16 </sup></b>And they began to envy Moses in the camp,</p>
<p class="sz">Even Aaron the holy one of Jehovah.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter106_verse17"></a><b><sup>17 </sup></b>The earth then opened up and swallowed down Da′than,</p>
<p class="sz">And covered over the assembly of A·bi′ram.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter106_verse18"></a><b><sup>18 </sup></b>And a fire went burning among their assembly;</p>
<p class="sz">A flame itself went devouring the wicked ones.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter106_verse19"></a><b><sup>19 </sup></b>Furthermore, they made a calf in Ho′reb</p>
<p class="sz">And bowed down to a molten image,</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter106_verse20"></a><b><sup>20 </sup></b>So that they exchanged my glory</p>
<p class="sz">For a representation of a bull, an eater of vegetation.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter106_verse21"></a><b><sup>21 </sup></b>They forgot God their Savior,</p>
<p class="sz">The Doer of great things in Egypt,</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter106_verse22"></a><b><sup>22 </sup></b>Wonderful works in the land of Ham,</p>
<p class="sz">Fear-inspiring things at the Red Sea.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter106_verse23"></a><b><sup>23 </sup></b>And he was about to say to annihilate them,</p>
<p class="sz">If it had not been for Moses his chosen one,</p>
<p class="sp">Who stood in the gap before him,</p>
<p class="sz">To turn back his rage from bringing them to ruin.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter106_verse24"></a><b><sup>24 </sup></b>And they got to contemning the desirable land;</p>
<p class="sz">They had no faith in his word.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter106_verse25"></a><b><sup>25 </sup></b>And they kept grumbling in their tents;</p>
<p class="sz">They did not listen to the voice of Jehovah.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter106_verse26"></a><b><sup>26 </sup></b>So he proceeded to raise his hand in an oath concerning them,</p>
<p class="sz">That he would make them fall in the wilderness,</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter106_verse27"></a><b><sup>27 </sup></b>And that he would make their offspring fall among the nations,</p>
<p class="sz">And that he would scatter them among the lands.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter106_verse28"></a><b><sup>28 </sup></b>And they began to attach themselves to Ba′al of Pe′or</p>
<p class="sz">And to eat the sacrifices of the dead ones.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter106_verse29"></a><b><sup>29 </sup></b>As they were causing offense by their dealings,</p>
<p class="sz">A scourge now broke out among them.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter106_verse30"></a><b><sup>30 </sup></b>When Phin′e·has stood up and intervened,</p>
<p class="sz">Then the scourge was halted.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter106_verse31"></a><b><sup>31 </sup></b>And it came to be counted to him as righteousness</p>
<p class="sz">For generation after generation to time indefinite.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter106_verse32"></a><b><sup>32 </sup></b>Further, they caused provocation at the waters of Mer′i·bah,</p>
<p class="sz">So that it went badly with Moses by reason of them.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter106_verse33"></a><b><sup>33 </sup></b>For they embittered his spirit</p>
<p class="sz">And he began to speak rashly with his lips.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter106_verse34"></a><b><sup>34 </sup></b>They did not annihilate the peoples,</p>
<p class="sz">As Jehovah had said to them.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter106_verse35"></a><b><sup>35 </sup></b>And they went mingling with the nations</p>
<p class="sz">And took up learning their works.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter106_verse36"></a><b><sup>36 </sup></b>And they kept serving their idols,</p>
<p class="sz">And these came to be a snare to them.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter106_verse37"></a><b><sup>37 </sup></b>And they would sacrifice their sons</p>
<p class="sz">And their daughters to demons.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter106_verse38"></a><b><sup>38 </sup></b>So they kept spilling innocent blood,</p>
<p class="sz">The blood of their sons and their daughters,</p>
<p class="sp">Whom they sacrificed to the idols of Ca′naan;</p>
<p class="sz">And the land came to be polluted with bloodshed.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter106_verse39"></a><b><sup>39 </sup></b>And they got to be unclean by their works</p>
<p class="sz"><a id="page804"></a>And kept having immoral intercourse by their dealings.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter106_verse40"></a><b><sup>40 </sup></b>And the anger of Jehovah began to blaze against his people,</p>
<p class="sz">And he came to detest his inheritance.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter106_verse41"></a><b><sup>41 </sup></b>And he repeatedly gave them into the hand of the nations,</p>
<p class="sz">That those hating them might rule over them,</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter106_verse42"></a><b><sup>42 </sup></b>And that their enemies might oppress them,</p>
<p class="sz">And that they might be subdued under their hand.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter106_verse43"></a><b><sup>43 </sup></b>Many times he would deliver them,</p>
<p class="sz">But they themselves would behave rebelliously in their disobedient course,</p>
<p class="sz">And they would be brought low for their error.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter106_verse44"></a><b><sup>44 </sup></b>And he would see the distress of theirs</p>
<p class="sz">When he heard their entreating cry.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter106_verse45"></a><b><sup>45 </sup></b>And he would remember concerning them his covenant,</p>
<p class="sz">And he would feel regret according to the abundance of his grand loving-kindness.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter106_verse46"></a><b><sup>46 </sup></b>And he would grant them to be objects of pity</p>
<p class="sz">Before all those holding them captive.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter106_verse47"></a><b><sup>47 </sup></b>Save us, O Jehovah our God,</p>
<p class="sz">And collect us together from the nations</p>
<p class="sp">To give thanks to your holy name,</p>
<p class="sz">To speak exultingly in your praise.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter106_verse48"></a><b><sup>48 </sup></b>Blessed be Jehovah the God of Israel</p>
<p class="sz">From time indefinite even to time indefinite;</p>
<p class="sp">And all the people must say Amen.</p>
<p class="sz">Praise Jah, <span class="smcap">YOU </span>people!</p>
</body>
</html>
