<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="application/xhtml+xml; charset=utf-8" />
<title>Psalm 65</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/bi12.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
<p class="w_biblebookname">Psalms</p><p class="sw">To the director. A melody of David. A song.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter65"></a><a id="chapter65_verse1"></a><span class="w_ch"><b>65 </b></span>For you there is praise—silence—, O God, in Zion;</p>
<p class="sz">And to you the vow will be paid.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter65_verse2"></a> <b><sup>2 </sup></b>O Hearer of prayer, even to you people of all flesh will come.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter65_verse3"></a> <b><sup>3 </sup></b>Things of error have proved mightier than I am.</p>
<p class="sz">As for our transgressions, you yourself will cover them.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter65_verse4"></a> <b><sup>4 </sup></b>Happy is the one you choose and cause to approach,</p>
<p class="sz">That he may reside in your courtyards.</p>
<p class="sp">We will certainly be satisfied with the goodness of your house,</p>
<p class="sz"><a id="page764"></a>The holy place of your temple.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter65_verse5"></a> <b><sup>5 </sup></b>With fear-inspiring things in righteousness you will answer us,</p>
<p class="sz">O God of our salvation,</p>
<p class="sz">The Trust of all the borders of the earth and those far away on the sea.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter65_verse6"></a> <b><sup>6 </sup></b>He is firmly establishing the mountains with his power;</p>
<p class="sz">He is indeed girded with mightiness.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter65_verse7"></a> <b><sup>7 </sup></b>He is stilling the noise of the seas,</p>
<p class="sz">The noise of their waves and the turmoil of the national groups.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter65_verse8"></a> <b><sup>8 </sup></b>And the inhabitants of the uttermost parts will be afraid of your signs;</p>
<p class="sz">The goings forth of the morning and evening you cause to cry out joyfully.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter65_verse9"></a> <b><sup>9 </sup></b>You have turned your attention to the earth, that you may give it abundance;</p>
<p class="sz">You enrich it very much.</p>
<p class="sz">The stream from God is full of water.</p>
<p class="sp">You prepare their grain,</p>
<p class="sz">For that is the way you prepare the earth.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter65_verse10"></a><b><sup>10 </sup></b>There is a drenching of its furrows, a leveling off of its clods;</p>
<p class="sz">With copious showers you soften it; you bless its very sprouts.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter65_verse11"></a><b><sup>11 </sup></b>You have crowned the year with your goodness,</p>
<p class="sz">And your very tracks drip with fatness.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter65_verse12"></a><b><sup>12 </sup></b>The pasture grounds of the wilderness keep dripping,</p>
<p class="sz">And with joyfulness the very hills gird themselves.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter65_verse13"></a><b><sup>13 </sup></b>The pastures have become clothed with flocks,</p>
<p class="sz">And the low plains themselves are enveloped with grain.</p>
<p class="sz">They shout in triumph, yes, they sing.</p>
</body>
</html>
