<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="application/xhtml+xml; charset=utf-8" />
<title>Psalm 76</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/bi12.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
<p class="w_biblebookname">Psalms</p><p class="sw"><a id="page775"></a>To the director on stringed instruments. A melody. Of A′saph. A song.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter76"></a><a id="chapter76_verse1"></a><span class="w_ch"><b>76 </b></span>God is known in Judah;</p>
<p class="sz">In Israel his name is great.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter76_verse2"></a> <b><sup>2 </sup></b>And his covert proves to be in Sa′lem itself,</p>
<p class="sz">And his dwelling place in Zion.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter76_verse3"></a> <b><sup>3 </sup></b>There he broke the flaming shafts of the bow,</p>
<p class="sz">The shield and the sword and the battle. <i>Se′lah.</i></p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter76_verse4"></a> <b><sup>4 </sup></b>You are enveloped with light, more majestic than the mountains of prey.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter76_verse5"></a> <b><sup>5 </sup></b>The ones powerful in heart have been despoiled,</p>
<p class="sz">They have drowsed away to their sleep,</p>
<p class="sz">And none of all the valiant men have found their hands.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter76_verse6"></a> <b><sup>6 </sup></b>From your rebuke, O God of Jacob, both the charioteer and the horse have fallen fast asleep.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter76_verse7"></a> <b><sup>7 </sup></b>You—fear-inspiring you are,</p>
<p class="sz">And who can stand before you because of the strength of your anger?</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter76_verse8"></a> <b><sup>8 </sup></b>From heaven you caused the legal contest to be heard;</p>
<p class="sz">The earth itself feared and kept quiet</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter76_verse9"></a> <b><sup>9 </sup></b>When God rose up to judgment,</p>
<p class="sz">To save all the meek of the earth. <i>Se′lah.</i></p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter76_verse10"></a><b><sup>10 </sup></b>For the very rage of man will laud you;</p>
<p class="sz">The remainder of raging you will gird upon yourself.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter76_verse11"></a><b><sup>11 </sup></b>Vow and pay to Jehovah <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>God, all <span class="smcap">YOU </span>who are round about him.</p>
<p class="sz">Let them bring a gift in fear.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter76_verse12"></a><b><sup>12 </sup></b>He will humble the spirit of leaders;</p>
<p class="sz">Fear-inspiring he is to the kings of the earth.</p>
</body>
</html>
