<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="application/xhtml+xml; charset=utf-8" />
<title>Psalm 39</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/bi12.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
<p class="w_biblebookname">Psalms</p><p class="sw">To the director of Je·du′thun. A melody of David.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter39"></a><a id="chapter39_verse1"></a><span class="w_ch"><b>39 </b></span>I said: “I will guard my ways</p>
<p class="sz">To keep from sinning with my tongue.</p>
<p class="sp">I will set a muzzle as a guard to my own mouth,</p>
<p class="sz">As long as anyone wicked is in front of me.”</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter39_verse2"></a> <b><sup>2 </sup></b>I became speechless with silence;</p>
<p class="sz">I kept quiet from what is good,</p>
<p class="sz">And my being pained was ostracized.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter39_verse3"></a> <b><sup>3 </sup></b>My heart grew hot inside me;</p>
<p class="sz">During my sighing the fire kept burning.</p>
<p class="sz">I spoke with my tongue:</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter39_verse4"></a> <b><sup>4 </sup></b>“Cause me, O Jehovah, to know my end,</p>
<p class="sz">And the measure of my days—what it is,</p>
<p class="sz">That I may know how transient I am.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter39_verse5"></a> <b><sup>5 </sup></b>Look! You have made my days just a few;</p>
<p class="sz">And my life’s duration is as nothing in front of you.</p>
<p class="sz">Surely every earthling man, though standing firm, is nothing but an exhalation. <i>Se′lah.</i></p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter39_verse6"></a> <b><sup>6 </sup></b>Surely in a semblance man walks about.</p>
<p class="sz">Surely they are boisterous in vain.</p>
<p class="sz">One piles up things and does not know who will be gathering them.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter39_verse7"></a> <b><sup>7 </sup></b>And now for what have I hoped, O Jehovah?</p>
<p class="sz">My expectation is toward you.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter39_verse8"></a> <b><sup>8 </sup></b>From all my transgressions deliver me.</p>
<p class="sz">Do not set me as a reproach of the senseless one.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter39_verse9"></a> <b><sup>9 </sup></b>I kept speechless; I could not open my mouth,</p>
<p class="sz">For you yourself acted.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter39_verse10"></a><b><sup>10 </sup></b>Remove from off me your plague.</p>
<p class="sz">Due to the hostility of your hand I myself have come to an end.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter39_verse11"></a><b><sup>11 </sup></b>By reproofs against error you have corrected man,</p>
<p class="sz">And you consume his desirable things just as a moth does.</p>
<p class="sz">Surely every earthling man is an exhalation. <i>Se′lah.</i></p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter39_verse12"></a><b><sup>12 </sup></b>Do hear my prayer, O Jehovah,</p>
<p class="sz">And to my cry for help do give ear.</p>
<p class="sz">At my tears do not keep silent.</p>
<p class="sp">For I am but an alien resident with you,</p>
<p class="sz">A settler the same as all my forefathers.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter39_verse13"></a><b><sup>13 </sup></b>Look away from me, that I may brighten up</p>
<p class="sz">Before I go away and I am not.”</p>
</body>
</html>
