<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="application/xhtml+xml; charset=utf-8" />
<title>Psalm 92</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/bi12.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
<p class="w_biblebookname">Psalms</p><p class="sw"><a id="page791"></a>A melody, a song, for the sabbath day.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter92"></a><a id="chapter92_verse1"></a><span class="w_ch"><b>92 </b></span>It is good to give thanks to Jehovah</p>
<p class="sz">And to make melody to your name, O Most High;</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter92_verse2"></a> <b><sup>2 </sup></b>To tell in the morning about your loving-kindness</p>
<p class="sz">And about your faithfulness during the nights,</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter92_verse3"></a> <b><sup>3 </sup></b>Upon a ten-stringed instrument and upon the lute,</p>
<p class="sz">By resounding music on the harp.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter92_verse4"></a> <b><sup>4 </sup></b>For you have made me rejoice, O Jehovah, because of your activity;</p>
<p class="sz">Because of the works of your hands I cry out joyfully.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter92_verse5"></a> <b><sup>5 </sup></b>How great your works are, O Jehovah!</p>
<p class="sz">Very deep your thoughts are.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter92_verse6"></a> <b><sup>6 </sup></b>No unreasoning man himself can know them,</p>
<p class="sz">And no one stupid can understand this.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter92_verse7"></a> <b><sup>7 </sup></b>When the wicked ones sprout as the vegetation</p>
<p class="sz">And all the practicers of what is hurtful blossom forth,</p>
<p class="sz">It is that they may be annihilated forever.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter92_verse8"></a> <b><sup>8 </sup></b>But you are on high to time indefinite, O Jehovah.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter92_verse9"></a> <b><sup>9 </sup></b>For, look! your enemies, O Jehovah,</p>
<p class="sz">For, look! your own enemies will perish;</p>
<p class="sz">All the practicers of what is hurtful will be separated from one another.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter92_verse10"></a><b><sup>10 </sup></b>But you will exalt my horn like that of a wild bull;</p>
<p class="sz">I shall moisten myself with fresh oil.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter92_verse11"></a><b><sup>11 </sup></b>And my eye will look on my foes;</p>
<p class="sz">My ears will hear about the very ones who rise up against me, the evildoers.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter92_verse12"></a><b><sup>12 </sup></b>The righteous himself will blossom forth as a palm tree does;</p>
<p class="sz">As a cedar in Leb′a·non does, he will grow big.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter92_verse13"></a><b><sup>13 </sup></b>Those who are planted in the house of Jehovah,</p>
<p class="sz">In the courtyards of our God, they will blossom forth.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter92_verse14"></a><b><sup>14 </sup></b>They will still keep on thriving during gray-headedness,</p>
<p class="sz">Fat and fresh they will continue to be,</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter92_verse15"></a><b><sup>15 </sup></b>To tell that Jehovah is upright.</p>
<p class="sz">He is my Rock, in whom there is no unrighteousness.</p>
</body>
</html>
