<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="application/xhtml+xml; charset=utf-8" />
<title>Psalm 16</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/bi12.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
<p class="w_biblebookname">Psalms</p><p class="sw">A mik′tam of David.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter16"></a><a id="chapter16_verse1"></a><span class="w_ch"><b>16 </b></span>Keep me, O God, for I have taken refuge in you.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter16_verse2"></a> <b><sup>2 </sup></b>I have said to Jehovah: “You are Jehovah; my goodness is, not for your sake,</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter16_verse3"></a> <b><sup>3 </sup></b>But to the holy ones that are in the earth.</p>
<p class="sz">They, even the majestic ones, are the ones in whom is all my delight.”</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter16_verse4"></a> <b><sup>4 </sup></b>Pains become many to those who, when there is someone else, do hurry after him.</p>
<p class="sz">I shall not pour out their drink offerings of blood,</p>
<p class="sz">And I shall not carry their names upon my lips.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter16_verse5"></a> <b><sup>5 </sup></b>Jehovah is the portion of my allotted share and of my cup.</p>
<p class="sz">You are holding fast my lot.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter16_verse6"></a> <b><sup>6 </sup></b>The measuring lines themselves have fallen for me in pleasant places.</p>
<p class="sz">Really, my own possession has proved agreeable to me.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter16_verse7"></a> <b><sup>7 </sup></b>I shall bless Jehovah, who has given me advice.</p>
<p class="sz">Really, during the nights my kidneys have corrected me.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="page724"></a><a id="chapter16_verse8"></a> <b><sup>8 </sup></b>I have placed Jehovah in front of me constantly.</p>
<p class="sz">Because he is at my right hand, I shall not be made to totter.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter16_verse9"></a> <b><sup>9 </sup></b>Therefore my heart does rejoice, and my glory is inclined to be joyful.</p>
<p class="sz">Also, my own flesh will reside in security.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter16_verse10"></a><b><sup>10 </sup></b>For you will not leave my soul in She′ol.</p>
<p class="sz">You will not allow your loyal one to see the pit.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter16_verse11"></a><b><sup>11 </sup></b>You will cause me to know the path of life.</p>
<p class="sz">Rejoicing to satisfaction is with your face;</p>
<p class="sz">There is pleasantness at your right hand forever.</p>
</body>
</html>
