<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="application/xhtml+xml; charset=utf-8" />
<title>Psalm 132</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/bi12.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
<p class="w_biblebookname">Psalms</p><p class="sw">A Song of the Ascents.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter132"></a><a id="chapter132_verse1"></a><span class="w_ch"><b>132 </b></span>Remember, O Jehovah, concerning David</p>
<p class="sz">All his humiliations;</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter132_verse2"></a> <b><sup>2 </sup></b>How he swore to Jehovah,</p>
<p class="sz">How he vowed to the Powerful One of Jacob:</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter132_verse3"></a> <b><sup>3 </sup></b>“I will not go into the tent of my house.</p>
<p class="sz">I will not go up on the divan of my grand lounge,</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter132_verse4"></a> <b><sup>4 </sup></b>I will not give sleep to my eyes,</p>
<p class="sz">Nor slumber to my own beaming eyes,</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter132_verse5"></a> <b><sup>5 </sup></b>Until I find a place for Jehovah,</p>
<p class="sz">A grand tabernacle for the Powerful One of Jacob.”</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter132_verse6"></a> <b><sup>6 </sup></b>Look! We have heard it in Eph′ra·thah,</p>
<p class="sz">We have found it in the fields of the forest.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter132_verse7"></a> <b><sup>7 </sup></b>Let us come into his grand tabernacle;</p>
<p class="sz"><a id="page826"></a>Let us bow down at his footstool.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter132_verse8"></a> <b><sup>8 </sup></b>Do arise, O Jehovah, to your resting-place,</p>
<p class="sz">You and the Ark of your strength.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter132_verse9"></a> <b><sup>9 </sup></b>Let your priests themselves be clothed with righteousness,</p>
<p class="sz">And let your own loyal ones cry out joyfully.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter132_verse10"></a><b><sup>10 </sup></b>On account of David your servant,</p>
<p class="sz">Do not turn back the face of your anointed one.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter132_verse11"></a><b><sup>11 </sup></b>Jehovah has sworn to David,</p>
<p class="sz">Truly he will not draw back from it:</p>
<p class="sp">“Of the fruitage of your belly</p>
<p class="sz">I shall set on your throne.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter132_verse12"></a><b><sup>12 </sup></b>If your sons will keep my covenant</p>
<p class="sz">And my reminders that I shall teach them,</p>
<p class="sp">Their sons also forever</p>
<p class="sz">Will sit upon your throne.”</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter132_verse13"></a><b><sup>13 </sup></b>For Jehovah has chosen Zion;</p>
<p class="sz">He has longed for it as a dwelling for himself:</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter132_verse14"></a><b><sup>14 </sup></b>“This is my resting-place forever;</p>
<p class="sz">Here I shall dwell, for I have longed for it.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter132_verse15"></a><b><sup>15 </sup></b>Its provisions I shall bless without fail.</p>
<p class="sz">Its poor ones I shall satisfy with bread.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter132_verse16"></a><b><sup>16 </sup></b>And its priests I shall clothe with salvation;</p>
<p class="sz">And its loyal ones will without fail cry out joyfully.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter132_verse17"></a><b><sup>17 </sup></b>There I shall cause the horn of David to grow.</p>
<p class="sz">I have set in order a lamp for my anointed one.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter132_verse18"></a><b><sup>18 </sup></b>His enemies I shall clothe with shame;</p>
<p class="sz">But upon him his diadem will flourish.”</p>
</body>
</html>
