<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="application/xhtml+xml; charset=utf-8" />
<title>Psalm 85</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/bi12.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
<p class="w_biblebookname">Psalms</p><p class="sw">For the director. Of the sons of Ko′rah. A melody.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter85"></a><a id="chapter85_verse1"></a><span class="w_ch"><b>85 </b></span>You have taken pleasure, O Jehovah, in your land;</p>
<p class="sz">You have brought back the ones taken captive of Jacob.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter85_verse2"></a> <b><sup>2 </sup></b>You have pardoned the error of your people;</p>
<p class="sz">You have covered all their sin. <i>Se′lah.</i></p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter85_verse3"></a> <b><sup>3 </sup></b>You have controlled all your fury;</p>
<p class="sz">You have turned back from the heat of your anger.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter85_verse4"></a> <b><sup>4 </sup></b>Gather us back, O God of our salvation,</p>
<p class="sz">And break off your vexation with us.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter85_verse5"></a> <b><sup>5 </sup></b>Is it to time indefinite that you will be incensed at us?</p>
<p class="sz">Will you draw out your anger to generation after generation?</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter85_verse6"></a> <b><sup>6 </sup></b>Will you yourself not enliven us again,</p>
<p class="sz">That your people themselves may rejoice in you?</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter85_verse7"></a> <b><sup>7 </sup></b>Show us, O Jehovah, your loving-kindness,</p>
<p class="sz">And your salvation may you give to us.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter85_verse8"></a> <b><sup>8 </sup></b>I will hear what the true God Jehovah will speak,</p>
<p class="sz">For he will speak peace to his people and to his loyal ones,</p>
<p class="sz">But let them not return to self-confidence.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter85_verse9"></a> <b><sup>9 </sup></b>Surely his salvation is near to those fearing him,</p>
<p class="sz">For glory to reside in our land.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter85_verse10"></a><b><sup>10 </sup></b>As for loving-kindness and trueness, they have met each other;</p>
<p class="sz">Righteousness and peace—they have kissed each other.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter85_verse11"></a><b><sup>11 </sup></b>Trueness itself will sprout out of the very earth,</p>
<p class="sz">And righteousness itself will look down from the very heavens.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter85_verse12"></a><b><sup>12 </sup></b>Also, Jehovah, for his part, will give what is good,</p>
<p class="sz">And our own land will give its yield.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter85_verse13"></a><b><sup>13 </sup></b>Before him righteousness itself will walk,</p>
<p class="sz">And it will make a way by his steppings.</p>
</body>
</html>
