<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="application/xhtml+xml; charset=utf-8" />
<title>Psalm 116</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/bi12.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
<p class="w_biblebookname">Psalms</p><p class="sl"><a id="chapter116"></a><a id="chapter116_verse1"></a><span class="w_ch"><b>116 </b></span>I do love, because Jehovah hears</p>
<p class="sz">My voice, my entreaties.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter116_verse2"></a> <b><sup>2 </sup></b>For he has inclined his ear to me,</p>
<p class="sz">And throughout my days I shall call.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter116_verse3"></a> <b><sup>3 </sup></b>The ropes of death encircled me</p>
<p class="sz">And the distressing circumstances of She′ol themselves found me.</p>
<p class="sz">Distress and grief I kept finding.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter116_verse4"></a> <b><sup>4 </sup></b>But upon the name of Jehovah I proceeded to call:</p>
<p class="sz">“Ah, Jehovah, do provide my soul with escape!”</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter116_verse5"></a> <b><sup>5 </sup></b>Jehovah is gracious and righteous;</p>
<p class="sz">And our God is One showing mercy.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter116_verse6"></a> <b><sup>6 </sup></b>Jehovah is guarding the inexperienced ones.</p>
<p class="sz">I was impoverished, and he proceeded to save even me.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter116_verse7"></a> <b><sup>7 </sup></b>Return to your resting-place, O my soul,</p>
<p class="sz">For Jehovah himself has acted appropriately toward you.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter116_verse8"></a> <b><sup>8 </sup></b>For you have rescued my soul from death,</p>
<p class="sz">My eye from tears, my foot from stumbling.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter116_verse9"></a> <b><sup>9 </sup></b>I will walk before Jehovah in the lands of those living.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter116_verse10"></a><b><sup>10 </sup></b>I had faith, for I proceeded to speak.</p>
<p class="sz">I myself was very much afflicted.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter116_verse11"></a><b><sup>11 </sup></b>I, for my part, said, when I became panicky:</p>
<p class="sz">“Every man is a liar.”</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter116_verse12"></a><b><sup>12 </sup></b>What shall I repay to Jehovah</p>
<p class="sz">For all his benefits to me?</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter116_verse13"></a><b><sup>13 </sup></b>The cup of grand salvation I shall take up,</p>
<p class="sz">And on the name of Jehovah I shall call.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter116_verse14"></a><b><sup>14 </sup></b>My vows I shall pay to Jehovah,</p>
<p class="sz">Yes, in front of all his people.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter116_verse15"></a><b><sup>15 </sup></b>Precious in the eyes of Jehovah</p>
<p class="sz">Is the death of his loyal ones.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter116_verse16"></a><b><sup>16 </sup></b>Ah, now, O Jehovah,</p>
<p class="sz">For I am your servant.</p>
<p class="sp">I am your servant, the son of your slave girl.</p>
<p class="sz">You have loosened my bands.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter116_verse17"></a><b><sup>17 </sup></b>To you I shall offer the sacrifice of thanksgiving,</p>
<p class="sz">And on the name of Jehovah I shall call.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter116_verse18"></a><b><sup>18 </sup></b>My vows I shall pay to Jehovah,</p>
<p class="sz">Yes, in front of all his people,</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter116_verse19"></a><b><sup>19 </sup></b>In the courtyards of the house of Jehovah,</p>
<p class="sz">In the midst of you, O Jerusalem.</p>
<p class="sz">Praise Jah, <span class="smcap">YOU </span>people!</p>
</body>
</html>
