<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="application/xhtml+xml; charset=utf-8" />
<title>Proverbs 7</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/bi12.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
<p class="w_biblebookname">Proverbs</p><p class="sb"><a id="chapter7"></a><a id="chapter7_verse1"></a><span class="w_ch"><b>7 </b></span>My son, keep my sayings, and may you treasure up my own commandments with you. <a id="chapter7_verse2"></a><b><sup>2 </sup></b>Keep my commandments and continue living, and my law like the pupil of your eyes. <a id="chapter7_verse3"></a><b><sup>3 </sup></b>Tie them upon your fingers, and write them upon the tablet of your heart. <a id="chapter7_verse4"></a><b><sup>4 </sup></b>Say to wisdom: “You are my sister”; and may you call understanding itself “Kinswoman,” <a id="chapter7_verse5"></a><b><sup>5 </sup></b>to guard you against the woman stranger, against the foreigner who has made her own sayings smooth. <a id="page844"></a><a id="chapter7_verse6"></a><b><sup>6 </sup></b>For at the window of my house, through my lattice I looked down, <a id="chapter7_verse7"></a><b><sup>7 </sup></b>that I might peer upon the inexperienced ones. I was interested in discerning among the sons a young man in want of heart, <a id="chapter7_verse8"></a><b><sup>8 </sup></b>passing along on the street near her corner, and in the way to her house he marches, <a id="chapter7_verse9"></a><b><sup>9 </sup></b>in the twilight, in the evening of the day, at the approach of the night and the gloom. <a id="chapter7_verse10"></a><b><sup>10 </sup></b>And, look! there was a woman to meet him, with the garment of a prostitute and cunning of heart. <a id="chapter7_verse11"></a><b><sup>11 </sup></b>She is boisterous and stubborn. In her house her feet do not keep residing. <a id="chapter7_verse12"></a><b><sup>12 </sup></b>Now she is outdoors, now she is in the public squares, and near every corner she lies in wait. <a id="chapter7_verse13"></a><b><sup>13 </sup></b>And she has grabbed hold of him and given him a kiss. She has put on a bold face, and she begins to say to him:</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter7_verse14"></a><b><sup>14 </sup></b>“Communion sacrifices were incumbent upon me. Today I have paid my vows. <a id="chapter7_verse15"></a><b><sup>15 </sup></b>That is why I have come out to meet you, to look for your face, that I may find you. <a id="chapter7_verse16"></a><b><sup>16 </sup></b>With coverlets I have bedecked my divan, with many-colored things, linen of Egypt. <a id="chapter7_verse17"></a><b><sup>17 </sup></b>I have besprinkled my bed with myrrh, aloes and cinnamon. <a id="chapter7_verse18"></a><b><sup>18 </sup></b>Do come, let us drink our fill of love until the morning; do let us enjoy each other with love expressions. <a id="chapter7_verse19"></a><b><sup>19 </sup></b>For the husband is not in his house; he has gone traveling on a way of some distance. <a id="chapter7_verse20"></a><b><sup>20 </sup></b>A bag of money he has taken in his hand. On the day of the full moon he will come to his house.”</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter7_verse21"></a><b><sup>21 </sup></b>She has misled him by the abundance of her persuasiveness. By the smoothness of her lips she seduces him. <a id="chapter7_verse22"></a><b><sup>22 </sup></b>All of a sudden he is going after her, like a bull that comes even to the slaughter, and just as if fettered for the discipline of a foolish man, <a id="chapter7_verse23"></a><b><sup>23 </sup></b>until an arrow cleaves open his liver, just as a bird hastens into the trap, and he has not known that it involves his very soul.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter7_verse24"></a><b><sup>24 </sup></b>And now, O sons, listen to me and pay attention to the sayings of my mouth. <a id="chapter7_verse25"></a><b><sup>25 </sup></b>May your heart not turn aside to her ways. Do not wander into her roadways. <a id="chapter7_verse26"></a><b><sup>26 </sup></b>For many are the ones she has caused to fall down slain, and all those being killed by her are numerous. <a id="chapter7_verse27"></a><b><sup>27 </sup></b>The ways to She′ol her house is; they are descending to the interior rooms of death.</p>
</body>
</html>
