<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="application/xhtml+xml; charset=utf-8" />
<title>Proverbs 25</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/bi12.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
<p class="w_biblebookname">Proverbs</p><p class="sb"><a id="chapter25"></a><a id="chapter25_verse1"></a><span class="w_ch"><b>25 </b></span>These also are the proverbs of Sol′o·mon that the men of Hez·e·ki′ah the king of Judah transcribed:</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter25_verse2"></a><b><sup>2 </sup></b>The glory of God is the keeping of a matter secret, and the glory of kings is the searching through a matter.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter25_verse3"></a><b><sup>3 </sup></b>The heavens for height and the earth for depth, and the heart of kings, that is unsearchable.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter25_verse4"></a><b><sup>4 </sup></b>Let there be a removing of scummy dross from the silver, and all of it will come forth refined.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter25_verse5"></a><b><sup>5 </sup></b>Let there be the removing of the wicked one before the king, and his throne will be firmly established by righteousness itself.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter25_verse6"></a><b><sup>6 </sup></b>Do not do yourself honor before the king, and in the place of great ones do not stand. <a id="chapter25_verse7"></a><b><sup>7 </sup></b>For it is better for him to say to you: “Come up here,” than to abase you before a noble whom your eyes have seen.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter25_verse8"></a><b><sup>8 </sup></b>Do not go forth to conduct a legal case hastily, that it may not be a question of what you will do in the culmination of it when your fellowman now humiliates you. <a id="chapter25_verse9"></a><b><sup>9 </sup></b>Plead your own cause with your fellowman, and do not reveal the confidential talk of another; <a id="chapter25_verse10"></a><b><sup>10 </sup></b>that the one listening may not put you to shame and the bad report by you can have no recall.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter25_verse11"></a><b><sup>11 </sup></b>As apples of gold in silver carvings is a word spoken at the right time for it.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter25_verse12"></a><b><sup>12 </sup></b>An earring of gold, and an ornament of special gold, is a wise reprover upon the hearing ear.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter25_verse13"></a><b><sup>13 </sup></b>Just like the coolness of snow in the day of harvest is the faithful envoy to those sending him, for he restores the very soul of his masters.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter25_verse14"></a><b><sup>14 </sup></b>As vaporous clouds and a wind without any downpour is a man boasting himself about a gift in falsehood.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter25_verse15"></a><b><sup>15 </sup></b>By patience a commander is induced, and a mild tongue itself can break a bone.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter25_verse16"></a><b><sup>16 </sup></b>Is it honey that you have found? Eat what is sufficient for you, that you may not take too much of it and have to vomit it up.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter25_verse17"></a><b><sup>17 </sup></b>Make your foot rare at the house of your fellowman, that he may not have his sufficiency of you and certainly hate you.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter25_verse18"></a><b><sup>18 </sup></b>As a war club and a sword and a sharpened arrow is a man testifying against his fellowman as a false witness.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter25_verse19"></a><b><sup>19 </sup></b>As a broken tooth and a wobbling foot is the confidence in one proving treacherous in the day of distress.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter25_verse20"></a><b><sup>20 </sup></b>He that is removing a garment on a cold day is as vinegar upon alkali and as a singer with songs upon a gloomy heart.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter25_verse21"></a><b><sup>21 </sup></b>If the one hating you is hungry, give him bread to eat; and if he is thirsty, give him water to drink. <a id="chapter25_verse22"></a><b><sup>22 </sup></b>For coals are what you are raking together upon his head, and Jehovah himself will reward you.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter25_verse23"></a><b><sup>23 </sup></b>The wind from the north brings forth as with labor pains a downpour; and a tongue giving away a secret, a denounced face.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter25_verse24"></a><b><sup>24 </sup></b>Better is it to dwell upon a corner of a roof than with a <a id="page865"></a>contentious wife, although in a house in common.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter25_verse25"></a><b><sup>25 </sup></b>As cold water upon a tired soul, so is a good report from a distant land.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter25_verse26"></a><b><sup>26 </sup></b>A fouled spring and a ruined well is the righteous one when staggering before the wicked one.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter25_verse27"></a><b><sup>27 </sup></b>The eating of too much honey is not good; and for people to search out their own glory, is it glory?</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter25_verse28"></a><b><sup>28 </sup></b>As a city broken through, without a wall, is the man that has no restraint for his spirit.</p>
</body>
</html>
