<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="application/xhtml+xml; charset=utf-8" />
<title>Proverbs 11</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/bi12.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
<p class="w_biblebookname">Proverbs</p><p class="sb"><a id="chapter11"></a><a id="chapter11_verse1"></a><span class="w_ch"><b>11 </b></span>A cheating pair of scales is something detestable to Jehovah, but a complete stone-weight is a pleasure to him.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter11_verse2"></a><b><sup>2 </sup></b>Has presumptuousness come? Then dishonor will come; but wisdom is with the modest ones.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter11_verse3"></a><b><sup>3 </sup></b>The integrity of the upright ones is what leads them, but distortion by those dealing treacherously will despoil them.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter11_verse4"></a><b><sup>4 </sup></b>Valuable things will be of no benefit on the day of fury, but righteousness itself will deliver from death.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter11_verse5"></a><b><sup>5 </sup></b>The righteousness of the blameless one is what will make his way straight, but in his own wickedness the wicked one will fall. <a id="chapter11_verse6"></a><b><sup>6 </sup></b>The righteousness of the upright ones is what will deliver them, but by their craving those dealing treacherously will themselves be caught.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter11_verse7"></a><b><sup>7 </sup></b>When a wicked man dies, his hope perishes; and even <a id="page848"></a>expectation based on powerfulness has perished.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter11_verse8"></a><b><sup>8 </sup></b>The righteous is the one rescued even from distress, and the wicked one comes in instead of him.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter11_verse9"></a><b><sup>9 </sup></b>By his mouth the one who is an apostate brings his fellowman to ruin, but by knowledge are the righteous rescued.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter11_verse10"></a><b><sup>10 </sup></b>Because of the goodness of the righteous ones a town is elated, but when the wicked ones perish there is a joyful cry.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter11_verse11"></a><b><sup>11 </sup></b>Because of the blessing of the upright ones a town is exalted, but because of the mouth of the wicked ones it gets torn down.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter11_verse12"></a><b><sup>12 </sup></b>The one in want of heart has despised his own fellowman, but the man of broad discernment is one that keeps silent.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter11_verse13"></a><b><sup>13 </sup></b>The one walking about as a slanderer is uncovering confidential talk, but the one faithful in spirit is covering over a matter.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter11_verse14"></a><b><sup>14 </sup></b>When there is no skillful direction, the people fall; but there is salvation in the multitude of counselors.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter11_verse15"></a><b><sup>15 </sup></b>One will positively fare badly because he has gone surety for a stranger, but the one hating handshaking is keeping carefree.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter11_verse16"></a><b><sup>16 </sup></b>A woman of charm is the one that takes hold of glory; but the tyrants, for their part, take hold of riches.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter11_verse17"></a><b><sup>17 </sup></b>A man of loving-kindness is dealing rewardingly with his own soul, but the cruel person is bringing ostracism upon his own organism.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter11_verse18"></a><b><sup>18 </sup></b>The wicked one is making false wages, but the one sowing righteousness, true earnings.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter11_verse19"></a><b><sup>19 </sup></b>The one firmly standing for righteousness is in line for life, but the one chasing after what is bad is in line for his own death.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter11_verse20"></a><b><sup>20 </sup></b>Those crooked at heart are something detestable to Jehovah, but the ones blameless in their way are a pleasure to him.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter11_verse21"></a><b><sup>21 </sup></b>Though hand be to hand, a bad person will not go unpunished; but the offspring of the righteous ones will certainly escape.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter11_verse22"></a><b><sup>22 </sup></b>As a gold nose ring in the snout of a pig, so is a woman that is pretty but that is turning away from sensibleness.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter11_verse23"></a><b><sup>23 </sup></b>The desire of the righteous ones is surely good; the hope of the wicked ones is fury.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter11_verse24"></a><b><sup>24 </sup></b>There exists the one that is scattering and yet is being increased; also the one that is keeping back from what is right, but it results only in want.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter11_verse25"></a><b><sup>25 </sup></b>The generous soul will itself be made fat, and the one freely watering others will himself also be freely watered.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter11_verse26"></a><b><sup>26 </sup></b>The one holding back grain—the populace will execrate him, but there is a blessing for the head of the one letting it be bought.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter11_verse27"></a><b><sup>27 </sup></b>He that is looking for good will keep seeking goodwill; but as for the one searching for bad, it will come upon him.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter11_verse28"></a><b><sup>28 </sup></b>The one trusting in his riches—he himself will fall; but just like foliage the righteous ones will flourish.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter11_verse29"></a><b><sup>29 </sup></b>As for anyone bringing ostracism upon his own house, he will take possession of wind; and a foolish person will be a servant to the one wise in heart.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter11_verse30"></a><b><sup>30 </sup></b>The fruitage of the righteous one is a tree of life, and he that is winning souls is wise.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter11_verse31"></a><b><sup>31 </sup></b>Look! The righteous one—in the earth he will be rewarded. <a id="page849"></a>How much more should the wicked one and the sinner be!</p>
</body>
</html>
