<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="application/xhtml+xml; charset=utf-8" />
<title>Song of Solomon 8</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/bi12.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
<p class="w_biblebookname">Song of Solomon</p><p class="sb"><a id="chapter8"></a><a id="chapter8_verse1"></a><span class="w_ch"><b>8 </b></span>“O that you were like a brother of mine, sucking the breasts of my mother! Should I find you outside, I would kiss you. People would not even despise me. <a id="chapter8_verse2"></a><b><sup>2 </sup></b>I would lead you, I would bring you into the house of my mother, who used to teach me. I would give you a drink of spiced wine, the fresh juice of pomegranates. <a id="chapter8_verse3"></a><b><sup>3 </sup></b>His left hand would be under my head; and his right hand—it would embrace me.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter8_verse4"></a><b><sup>4 </sup></b>“I have put <span class="smcap">YOU </span>under oath, O daughters of Jerusalem, that <a id="page888"></a><span class="smcap">YOU </span>try not to awaken or arouse love in me until it feels inclined.”</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter8_verse5"></a><b><sup>5 </sup></b>“Who is this woman coming up from the wilderness, leaning upon her dear one?”</p>
<p class="sb">“Under the apple tree I aroused you. There your mother was in birth pangs with you. There she that was giving birth to you experienced birth pangs.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter8_verse6"></a><b><sup>6 </sup></b>“Place me as a seal upon your heart, as a seal upon your arm; because love is as strong as death is, insistence on exclusive devotion is as unyielding as She′ol is. Its blazings are the blazings of a fire, the flame of Jah. <a id="chapter8_verse7"></a><b><sup>7 </sup></b>Many waters themselves are not able to extinguish love, nor can rivers themselves wash it away. If a man would give all the valuable things of his house for love, persons would positively despise them.”</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter8_verse8"></a><b><sup>8 </sup></b>“We have a little sister that does not have any breasts. What shall we do for our sister on the day that she will be spoken for?”</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter8_verse9"></a><b><sup>9 </sup></b>“If she should be a wall, we shall build upon her a battlement of silver; but if she should be a door, we shall block her up with a cedar plank.”</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter8_verse10"></a><b><sup>10 </sup></b>“I am a wall, and my breasts are like towers. In this case I have become in his eyes like her that is finding peace.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter8_verse11"></a><b><sup>11 </sup></b>“There was a vineyard that Sol′o·mon happened to have in Ba′al-ha′mon. He gave the vineyard over to the keepers. Each one would bring in for its fruitage a thousand silver pieces.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter8_verse12"></a><b><sup>12 </sup></b>“My vineyard, which belongs to me, is at my disposal. The thousand belong to you, O Sol′o·mon, and two hundred to those keeping its fruitage.”</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter8_verse13"></a><b><sup>13 </sup></b>“O you who are dwelling in the gardens, the partners are paying attention to your voice. Let me hear it.”</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter8_verse14"></a><b><sup>14 </sup></b>“Run away, my dear one, and make yourself like a gazelle or like a young one of the stags upon the mountains of spices.”</p>
</body>
</html>
