<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="application/xhtml+xml; charset=utf-8" />
<title>Isaiah 16</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/bi12.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
<p class="w_biblebookname">Isaiah</p><p class="sb"><a id="chapter16"></a><a id="chapter16_verse1"></a><span class="w_ch"><b>16 </b></span>Send a ram, <span class="smcap">YOU </span>men, to the ruler of the land, from Se′la toward the wilderness, to the mountain of the daughter of Zion.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter16_verse2"></a><b><sup>2 </sup></b>And it must occur that like a fleeing winged creature, chased away from its nest, the daughters of Mo′ab will become at the fords of Ar′non.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter16_verse3"></a><b><sup>3 </sup></b>“Bring in counsel, <span class="smcap">YOU </span>men, execute the decision.</p>
<p class="sb">“Make your shadow just like the night in the midst of noontime. Conceal the dispersed ones; do not betray anyone fleeing. <a id="chapter16_verse4"></a><b><sup>4 </sup></b>May my dispersed ones reside as aliens even in you, O Mo′ab. Become a place of concealment to them because of the despoiler. For the oppressor has reached his end; the despoiling has terminated; those trampling down others have been finished off the earth.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter16_verse5"></a><b><sup>5 </sup></b>“And in loving-kindness a throne will certainly be firmly established; and one must sit down upon it in trueness in the tent of David, judging and seeking justice and being prompt in righteousness.”</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter16_verse6"></a><b><sup>6 </sup></b>We have heard of the pride of Mo′ab, that he is very proud; his haughtiness and his pride and his fury—his empty talk will not be so. <a id="chapter16_verse7"></a><b><sup>7 </sup></b>Therefore Mo′ab will howl for Mo′ab; even all of it will howl. For the raisin cakes of Kir-har′e·seth the stricken ones indeed will moan, <a id="chapter16_verse8"></a><b><sup>8 </sup></b>because the terraces themselves of Hesh′bon have withered. The vine of Sib′mah—the owners of the nations themselves have smitten down its bright-red branches. As far as Ja′zer they had reached; they had wandered about in the wilderness. Its own shoots had been left to luxuriate for themselves; they had gone over to the sea.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter16_verse9"></a><b><sup>9 </sup></b>That is why I shall weep with the weeping of Ja′zer over the vine of Sib′mah. With my tears I shall drench you, O Hesh′bon and E·le·a′leh, because shouting even over your summer and over your harvest has fallen down. <a id="chapter16_verse10"></a><b><sup>10 </sup></b>And rejoicing and joyfulness have been taken away from the orchard; and in the vineyards there is no joyful crying out, there is no shouting <a id="page906"></a>done. No wine in the presses does the treader tread out. Shouting I have caused to cease.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter16_verse11"></a><b><sup>11 </sup></b>That is why my very inwards are boisterous just like a harp even over Mo′ab, and the midst of me over Kir-har′e·seth.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter16_verse12"></a><b><sup>12 </sup></b>And it occurred that it was seen that Mo′ab was made weary upon the high place; and he came to his sanctuary to pray, and he could not accomplish anything.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter16_verse13"></a><b><sup>13 </sup></b>This is the word that Jehovah spoke concerning Mo′ab formerly. <a id="chapter16_verse14"></a><b><sup>14 </sup></b>And now Jehovah has spoken, saying: “Within three years, according to the years of a hired laborer, the glory of Mo′ab must also be disgraced with much commotion of every sort, and those who remain over will be a trifling few, not mighty.”</p>
</body>
</html>
