<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="application/xhtml+xml; charset=utf-8" />
<title>Isaiah 11</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/bi12.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
<p class="w_biblebookname">Isaiah</p><p class="sb"><a id="chapter11"></a><a id="chapter11_verse1"></a><span class="w_ch"><b>11 </b></span>And there must go forth a twig out of the stump of Jes′se; and out of his roots a sprout will be fruitful. <a id="chapter11_verse2"></a><b><sup>2 </sup></b>And upon him the spirit of Jehovah must settle down, the spirit of wisdom and of understanding, the spirit of counsel and of mightiness, the spirit of knowledge and of the fear of Jehovah; <a id="chapter11_verse3"></a><b><sup>3 </sup></b>and there will be enjoyment by him in the fear of Jehovah.</p>
<p class="sb">And he will not judge by any mere appearance to his eyes, nor reprove simply according to the thing heard by his ears. <a id="chapter11_verse4"></a><b><sup>4 </sup></b>And with righteousness he must judge the lowly ones, and with uprightness he must give reproof in behalf of the meek ones of the earth. And he must strike the earth with the rod of his mouth; <a id="page901"></a>and with the spirit of his lips he will put the wicked one to death. <a id="chapter11_verse5"></a><b><sup>5 </sup></b>And righteousness must prove to be the belt of his hips, and faithfulness the belt of his loins.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter11_verse6"></a><b><sup>6 </sup></b>And the wolf will actually reside for a while with the male lamb, and with the kid the leopard itself will lie down, and the calf and the maned young lion and the well-fed animal all together; and a mere little boy will be leader over them. <a id="chapter11_verse7"></a><b><sup>7 </sup></b>And the cow and the bear themselves will feed; together their young ones will lie down. And even the lion will eat straw just like the bull. <a id="chapter11_verse8"></a><b><sup>8 </sup></b>And the sucking child will certainly play upon the hole of the cobra; and upon the light aperture of a poisonous snake will a weaned child actually put his own hand. <a id="chapter11_verse9"></a><b><sup>9 </sup></b>They will not do any harm or cause any ruin in all my holy mountain; because the earth will certainly be filled with the knowledge of Jehovah as the waters are covering the very sea.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter11_verse10"></a><b><sup>10 </sup></b>And it must occur in that day that there will be the root of Jes′se that will be standing up as a signal for the peoples. To him even the nations will turn inquiringly, and his resting-place must become glorious.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter11_verse11"></a><b><sup>11 </sup></b>And it must occur in that day that Jehovah will again offer his hand, a second time, to acquire the remnant of his people who will remain over from As·syr′i·a and from Egypt and from Path′ros and from Cush and from E′lam and from Shi′nar and from Ha′math and from the islands of the sea. <a id="chapter11_verse12"></a><b><sup>12 </sup></b>And he will certainly raise up a signal for the nations and gather the dispersed ones of Israel; and the scattered ones of Judah he will collect together from the four extremities of the earth.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter11_verse13"></a><b><sup>13 </sup></b>And the jealousy of E′phra·im must depart, and even those showing hostility to Judah will be cut off. E′phra·im itself will not be jealous of Judah, nor will Judah show hostility toward E′phra·im. <a id="chapter11_verse14"></a><b><sup>14 </sup></b>And they must fly at the shoulder of the Phi·lis′tines to the west; together they will plunder the sons of the East. E′dom and Mo′ab will be those upon whom they will thrust out their hand, and the sons of Am′mon will be their subjects. <a id="chapter11_verse15"></a><b><sup>15 </sup></b>And Jehovah will certainly cut off the tongue of the Egyptian sea, and wave his hand at the River in the glow of his spirit. And he must strike it in its seven torrents, and he will actually cause people to walk in their sandals. <a id="chapter11_verse16"></a><b><sup>16 </sup></b>And there must come to be a highway out of As·syr′i·a for the remnant of his people who will remain over, just as there came to be one for Israel in the day of his coming up out of the land of Egypt.</p>
</body>
</html>
