<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="application/xhtml+xml; charset=utf-8" />
<title>Isaiah 62</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/bi12.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
<p class="w_biblebookname">Isaiah</p><p class="sb"><a id="chapter62"></a><a id="chapter62_verse1"></a><span class="w_ch"><b>62 </b></span>For the sake of Zion I shall not keep still, and for the sake of Jerusalem I shall not stay quiet until her righteousness goes forth just like the brightness, and her salvation like a torch that burns.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter62_verse2"></a><b><sup>2 </sup></b>“And the nations will certainly see your righteousness, O woman, and all kings your glory. And you will actually be called by a new name, which the very mouth of Jehovah will designate. <a id="chapter62_verse3"></a><b><sup>3 </sup></b>And you must become a crown of beauty in the hand of Jehovah, and a kingly turban in the palm of your God. <a id="chapter62_verse4"></a><b><sup>4 </sup></b>No more will you be said to be a woman left entirely; and your own land will no more be said to be desolate; but you yourself will be called My Delight Is in Her, and your land Owned as a Wife. For Jehovah will have taken delight in you, and your own land will be owned as a wife. <a id="chapter62_verse5"></a><b><sup>5 </sup></b>For just as a young man takes ownership of a virgin as his wife, your sons will take ownership of you as a wife. And with the exultation of a bridegroom over a bride, your God will exult even over you. <a id="chapter62_verse6"></a><b><sup>6 </sup></b>Upon your walls, O Jerusalem, I have commissioned watchmen. All day long and all night long, constantly, let them not keep still.</p>
<p class="sb">“Y<span class="smcap">OU </span>who are making mention of Jehovah, let there be no silence on <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>part, <a id="chapter62_verse7"></a><b><sup>7 </sup></b>and do not give him any silence until he fixes solidly, yes, until he sets Jerusalem as a praise in the earth.”</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="page958"></a><a id="chapter62_verse8"></a><b><sup>8 </sup></b>Jehovah has sworn with his right hand and with his strong arm: “I will no more give your grain as food to your enemies, nor will foreigners drink your new wine, for which you have toiled. <a id="chapter62_verse9"></a><b><sup>9 </sup></b>But the very ones gathering it will eat it, and they will be certain to praise Jehovah; and the very ones collecting it will drink it in my holy courtyards.”</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter62_verse10"></a><b><sup>10 </sup></b>Pass out, pass out through the gates, <span class="smcap">YOU </span>men. Clear the way of the people. Bank up, bank up the highway. Rid it of stones. Raise up a signal for the peoples.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter62_verse11"></a><b><sup>11 </sup></b>Look! Jehovah himself has caused it to be heard to the farthest part of the earth: “Say, <span class="smcap">YOU </span>people, to the daughter of Zion, ‘Look! Your salvation is coming. Look! The reward he gives is with him, and the wages he pays are before him.’”</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter62_verse12"></a><b><sup>12 </sup></b>And men will certainly call them the holy people, those repurchased by Jehovah; and you yourself will be called Searched For, a City Not Left Entirely.</p>
</body>
</html>
