<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="application/xhtml+xml; charset=utf-8" />
<title>Isaiah 15</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/bi12.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
<p class="w_biblebookname">Isaiah</p><p class="sb"><a id="chapter15"></a><a id="chapter15_verse1"></a><span class="w_ch"><b>15 </b></span>The pronouncement against Mo′ab: Because in the night it has been despoiled, Ar of Mo′ab itself has been silenced. Because in the night it has been despoiled, Kir of Mo′ab itself has been silenced. <a id="chapter15_verse2"></a><b><sup>2 </sup></b>He has gone up to The House and to Di′bon, to the high places, to a weeping. Over Ne′bo and over Med′e·ba Mo′ab <a id="page905"></a>itself howls. On all heads in it there is baldness; every beard is clipped. <a id="chapter15_verse3"></a><b><sup>3 </sup></b>In its streets they have girded on sackcloth. Upon the roofs thereof and in the public squares thereof everyone thereof howls, going down with weeping. <a id="chapter15_verse4"></a><b><sup>4 </sup></b>And Hesh′bon and E·le·a′leh cry out. As far as Ja′haz their voice has been heard. That is why the armed men of Mo′ab themselves keep shouting. His very soul has quivered within him.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter15_verse5"></a><b><sup>5 </sup></b>My own heart cries out over Mo′ab himself. The runaways thereof are as far along as Zo′ar and Eg′lath-she·li′shi·yah. For on the ascent of Lu′hith—with weeping each one goes up on it; for on the way to Hor·o·na′im they arouse the outcry about the catastrophe. <a id="chapter15_verse6"></a><b><sup>6 </sup></b>For the very waters of Nim′rim become sheer desolations. For the green grass has dried up, the grass has come to an end; nothing has become green. <a id="chapter15_verse7"></a><b><sup>7 </sup></b>That is why the leftovers and their stored goods that they have put up, they keep carrying them away right over the torrent valley of the poplars. <a id="chapter15_verse8"></a><b><sup>8 </sup></b>For the outcry has gone around the territory of Mo′ab. The howling thereof is clear to Eg·la′im; the howling thereof is clear to Be′er-e′lim, <a id="chapter15_verse9"></a><b><sup>9 </sup></b>because the very waters of Di′mon have become full of blood. For upon Di′mon I shall place additional things, such as a lion for the escapees of Mo′ab who escape and for the remaining ones of the ground.</p>
</body>
</html>
