<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="application/xhtml+xml; charset=utf-8" />
<title>Isaiah 61</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/bi12.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
<p class="w_biblebookname">Isaiah</p><p class="sb"><a id="chapter61"></a><a id="chapter61_verse1"></a><span class="w_ch"><b>61 </b></span>The spirit of the Sovereign Lord Jehovah is upon me, for the reason that Jehovah has anointed me to tell good news to the meek ones. He has sent me to bind up the brokenhearted, to proclaim liberty to those taken captive and the wide opening of the eyes even to the prisoners; <a id="chapter61_verse2"></a><b><sup>2 </sup></b>to proclaim the year of goodwill on the part of Jehovah and the day of vengeance on the part of our God; to comfort all the mourning ones; <a id="chapter61_verse3"></a><b><sup>3 </sup></b>to assign to those mourning over Zion, to give them a headdress instead of ashes, the oil of exultation instead of mourning, the mantle of praise instead of the downhearted spirit; and they must be called big trees of righteousness, the planting of Jehovah, for him to be beautified. <a id="chapter61_verse4"></a><b><sup>4 </sup></b>And they must rebuild the long-standing devastated <a id="page957"></a>places; they will raise up even the desolated places of former times, and they will certainly make anew the devastated cities, the places desolate for generation after generation.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter61_verse5"></a><b><sup>5 </sup></b>“And strangers will actually stand and shepherd the flocks of <span class="smcap">YOU </span>people, and the foreigners will be <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>farmers and <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>vinedressers. <a id="chapter61_verse6"></a><b><sup>6 </sup></b>And as for <span class="smcap">YOU</span>, the priests of Jehovah <span class="smcap">YOU </span>will be called; the ministers of our God <span class="smcap">YOU </span>will be said to be. The resources of the nations <span class="smcap">YOU </span>people will eat, and in their glory <span class="smcap">YOU </span>will speak elatedly about yourselves. <a id="chapter61_verse7"></a><b><sup>7 </sup></b>Instead of <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>shame there will be a double portion, and instead of humiliation they will cry out joyfully over their share. Therefore in their land they will take possession of even a double portion. Rejoicing to time indefinite is what will come to be theirs. <a id="chapter61_verse8"></a><b><sup>8 </sup></b>For I, Jehovah, am loving justice, hating robbery along with unrighteousness. And I will give their wages in trueness, and an indefinitely lasting covenant I shall conclude toward them. <a id="chapter61_verse9"></a><b><sup>9 </sup></b>And their offspring will actually be known even among the nations, and their descendants in among the peoples. All those seeing them will recognize them, that they are the offspring whom Jehovah has blessed.”</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter61_verse10"></a><b><sup>10 </sup></b>Without fail I shall exult in Jehovah. My soul will be joyful in my God. For he has clothed me with the garments of salvation; with the sleeveless coat of righteousness he has enwrapped me, like the bridegroom who, in a priestly way, puts on a headdress, and like the bride who decks herself with her ornamental things. <a id="chapter61_verse11"></a><b><sup>11 </sup></b>For as the earth itself brings forth its sprout, and as the garden itself makes the things that are sown in it sprout, in like manner the Sovereign Lord Jehovah will cause the sprouting of righteousness and of praise in front of all the nations.</p>
</body>
</html>
