<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="application/xhtml+xml; charset=utf-8" />
<title>Isaiah 38</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/bi12.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
<p class="w_biblebookname">Isaiah</p><p class="sb"><a id="chapter38"></a><a id="chapter38_verse1"></a><span class="w_ch"><b>38 </b></span>In those days Hez·e·ki′ah got sick to the point of dying. Accordingly Isaiah the son of A′moz the prophet came in to him and said to him: “This is what Jehovah has said, ‘Give commands to your household, for you yourself will indeed die and will not live.’” <a id="chapter38_verse2"></a><b><sup>2 </sup></b>At that Hez·e·ki′ah turned his face to the wall and began to pray to Jehovah <a id="chapter38_verse3"></a><b><sup>3 </sup></b>and to say: “I beseech you, O Jehovah, remember, please, how I have walked before you in truthfulness and with a complete heart, and what was good in your eyes I have done.” And Hez·e·ki′ah began to weep profusely.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter38_verse4"></a><b><sup>4 </sup></b>And the word of Jehovah now occurred to Isaiah, saying: <a id="chapter38_verse5"></a><b><sup>5 </sup></b>“Go, and you must say to Hez·e·ki′ah, ‘This is what Jehovah the God of David your forefather has said: “I have heard your prayer. I have seen your tears. Here I am adding onto your days fifteen years; <a id="chapter38_verse6"></a><b><sup>6 </sup></b>and out of the palm of the king of As·syr′i·a I shall deliver you and this city, and I will defend this city. <a id="chapter38_verse7"></a><b><sup>7 </sup></b>And this is the sign for you from Jehovah that Jehovah will perform this word that he has spoken: <a id="chapter38_verse8"></a><b><sup>8 </sup></b>Here I am making the shadow of the steps that had gone down on the steps of the stairs of A′haz by the sun retrace backward ten steps.”’” And the sun gradually went back ten steps on the steps of the stairs that it had gone down.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter38_verse9"></a><b><sup>9 </sup></b>A writing of Hez·e·ki′ah the king of Judah, when he got sick and revived from his sickness.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter38_verse10"></a><b><sup>10 </sup></b>I myself said: “In the midst of my days I will go into the gates of She′ol.</p>
<p class="sz">I must be deprived of the remainder of my years.”</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter38_verse11"></a><b><sup>11 </sup></b>I have said: “I shall not see Jah, even Jah, in the land of the living ones.</p>
<p class="sz">I shall no more look on mankind—with the inhabitants of the land of cessation.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter38_verse12"></a><b><sup>12 </sup></b>My own habitation has been pulled out and removed from me like the tent of shepherds.</p>
<p class="sz">I have rolled up my life just like a loom worker;</p>
<p class="sp">One proceeds to cut me off from the very threads of the warp.</p>
<p class="sz">From daylight till night you keep handing me over.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter38_verse13"></a><b><sup>13 </sup></b>I have soothed myself until the morning.</p>
<p class="sz">Like a lion, so he keeps breaking all my bones;</p>
<p class="sl">From daylight till night you keep handing me over.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter38_verse14"></a><b><sup>14 </sup></b>Like the swift, the bulbul, so I keep chirping;</p>
<p class="sz"><a id="page930"></a>I keep cooing like the dove.</p>
<p class="sp">My eyes have looked languishingly to the height:</p>
<p class="sz">‘O Jehovah, I am under oppression. Stand good for me.’</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter38_verse15"></a><b><sup>15 </sup></b>What shall I speak, and what will he actually say to me?</p>
<p class="sz">He himself has also acted.</p>
<p class="sz">I keep walking solemnly all my years in the bitterness of my soul.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter38_verse16"></a><b><sup>16 </sup></b>‘O Jehovah, on that account they keep living; and as with everybody, thereby is the life of my spirit.</p>
<p class="sz">And you will restore me to health and certainly preserve me alive.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter38_verse17"></a><b><sup>17 </sup></b>Look! For peace I had what was bitter, yes, bitter;</p>
<p class="sz">And you yourself have become attached to my soul and kept it from the pit of disintegration.</p>
<p class="sz">For you have thrown behind your back all my sins.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter38_verse18"></a><b><sup>18 </sup></b>For it is not She′ol that can laud you; death itself cannot praise you.</p>
<p class="sz">Those going down into the pit cannot look hopefully to your trueness.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter38_verse19"></a><b><sup>19 </sup></b>The living, the living, he is the one that can laud you,</p>
<p class="sz">Just as I can this day.</p>
<p class="sz">The father himself can give knowledge to his own sons concerning your trueness.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter38_verse20"></a><b><sup>20 </sup></b>O Jehovah, undertake to save me, and we shall play my string selections</p>
<p class="sz">All the days of our life at the house of Jehovah.’”</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter38_verse21"></a><b><sup>21 </sup></b>And Isaiah proceeded to say: “Let them take a cake of pressed dried figs and rub it in upon the boil, that he may revive.” <a id="chapter38_verse22"></a><b><sup>22 </sup></b>Meantime, Hez·e·ki′ah said: “What is the sign that I shall go up to the house of Jehovah?”</p>
</body>
</html>
