<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="application/xhtml+xml; charset=utf-8" />
<title>Isaiah 36</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/bi12.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
<p class="w_biblebookname">Isaiah</p><p class="sb"><a id="chapter36"></a><a id="chapter36_verse1"></a><span class="w_ch"><b>36 </b></span>Now it came about in the fourteenth year of King Hez·e·ki′ah that Sen·nach′er·ib the king of As·syr′i·a came up against all the fortified cities of Judah and proceeded to seize them. <a id="chapter36_verse2"></a><b><sup>2 </sup></b>And the king of As·syr′i·a finally sent Rab′sha·keh from La′chish to Jerusalem, to King Hez·e·ki′ah, with a heavy military force, and he proceeded to stand still by the conduit of the upper pool at the highway of the laundryman’s field. <a id="chapter36_verse3"></a><b><sup>3 </sup></b>Then there came out to him E·li′a·kim the son of Hil·ki′ah, who was over the household, and Sheb′na the secretary and Jo′ah the son of A′saph the recorder.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter36_verse4"></a><b><sup>4 </sup></b>Accordingly Rab′sha·keh said to them: “Please, say to Hez·e·ki′ah, ‘This is what the great king, the king of As·syr′i·a, has said: “What is this confidence in which you have trusted? <a id="chapter36_verse5"></a><b><sup>5 </sup></b>You have said (but it is the word of lips), ‘There are counsel and mightiness for the war.’ Now in whom have you put trust, that you have rebelled against me? <a id="chapter36_verse6"></a><b><sup>6 </sup></b>Look! You have trusted in the support of this crushed reed, in Egypt, which, <a id="page926"></a>if a man should brace himself upon it, would certainly enter into his palm and pierce it. That is the way Phar′aoh the king of Egypt is to all those putting their trust in him. <a id="chapter36_verse7"></a><b><sup>7 </sup></b>And in case you should say to me, ‘It is Jehovah our God in whom we have trusted,’ is he not the one whose high places and whose altars Hez·e·ki′ah has removed, while he says to Judah and Jerusalem, ‘Before this altar <span class="smcap">YOU </span>should bow down’?”’ <a id="chapter36_verse8"></a><b><sup>8 </sup></b>Now, then, make a wager, please, with my lord the king of As·syr′i·a, and let me give you two thousand horses to see whether you are able, on your part, to put riders upon them. <a id="chapter36_verse9"></a><b><sup>9 </sup></b>How, then, could you turn back the face of one governor of the smallest servants of my lord, while you, for your part, put your trust in Egypt for chariots and for horsemen? <a id="chapter36_verse10"></a><b><sup>10 </sup></b>And now is it without authorization from Jehovah that I have come up against this land to bring it to ruin? Jehovah himself said to me, ‘Go up against this land, and you must bring it to ruin.’”</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter36_verse11"></a><b><sup>11 </sup></b>At this E·li′a·kim and Sheb′na and Jo′ah said to Rab′sha·keh: “Speak, please, to your servants in the Syrian language, for we are listening; and do not speak to us in the Jews’ language in the ears of the people that are on the wall.” <a id="chapter36_verse12"></a><b><sup>12 </sup></b>But Rab′sha·keh said: “Is it to your lord and to you that my lord has sent me to speak these words? Is it not to the men sitting upon the wall, that they may eat their own excrement and drink their own urine with <span class="smcap">YOU </span>men?”</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter36_verse13"></a><b><sup>13 </sup></b>And Rab′sha·keh continued to stand and call out in a loud voice in the Jews’ language, and he went on to say: “H<span class="smcap">EAR </span>the words of the great king, the king of As·syr′i·a. <a id="chapter36_verse14"></a><b><sup>14 </sup></b>This is what the king has said, ‘Do not let Hez·e·ki′ah deceive <span class="smcap">YOU </span>people, for he is not able to deliver <span class="smcap">YOU</span>. <a id="chapter36_verse15"></a><b><sup>15 </sup></b>And do not let Hez·e·ki′ah cause <span class="smcap">YOU </span>to trust in Jehovah, saying: “Without fail Jehovah will deliver us. This city will not be given into the hand of the king of As·syr′i·a.” <a id="chapter36_verse16"></a><b><sup>16 </sup></b>Do not listen to Hez·e·ki′ah, for this is what the king of As·syr′i·a has said: “Make a capitulation to me and come out to me and eat each one from his own vine and each one from his own fig tree and drink each one the water of his own cistern, <a id="chapter36_verse17"></a><b><sup>17 </sup></b>until I come and actually take <span class="smcap">YOU </span>to a land like <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>own land, a land of grain and new wine, a land of bread and vineyards; <a id="chapter36_verse18"></a><b><sup>18 </sup></b>in order that Hez·e·ki′ah may not allure <span class="smcap">YOU</span>, saying, ‘Jehovah himself will deliver us.’ Have the gods of the nations delivered each one his own land out of the hand of the king of As·syr′i·a? <a id="chapter36_verse19"></a><b><sup>19 </sup></b>Where are the gods of Ha′math and Ar′pad? Where are the gods of Seph·ar·va′im? And have they delivered Sa·mar′i·a out of my hand? <a id="chapter36_verse20"></a><b><sup>20 </sup></b>Who are there among all the gods of these lands that have delivered their land out of my hand so that Jehovah should deliver Jerusalem out of my hand?”’”</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter36_verse21"></a><b><sup>21 </sup></b>And they continued to keep silent and did not answer him a word, for the commandment of the king was, saying: “Y<span class="smcap">OU </span>must not answer him.” <a id="chapter36_verse22"></a><b><sup>22 </sup></b>But E·li′a·kim the son of Hil·ki′ah, who was over the household, and Sheb′na the secretary and Jo′ah the son of A′saph the recorder came to Hez·e·ki′ah with their garments ripped apart, and told him the words of Rab′sha·keh.</p>
</body>
</html>
