<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="application/xhtml+xml; charset=utf-8" />
<title>Jeremiah 41</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/bi12.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
<p class="w_biblebookname">Jeremiah</p><p class="sb"><a id="chapter41"></a><a id="chapter41_verse1"></a><span class="w_ch"><b>41 </b></span>So it came about in the seventh month that Ish′ma·el the son of Neth·a·ni′ah the son of E·lish′a·ma of the royal offspring and of the principal men of the king and ten other men with him came to Ged·a·li′ah the son of A·hi′kam at Miz′pah. And there they began to eat bread together in Miz′pah. <a id="chapter41_verse2"></a><b><sup>2 </sup></b>Then Ish′ma·el the son of Neth·a·ni′ah and the ten men that happened to be with him rose up and struck down Ged·a·li′ah the son of A·hi′kam the son of Sha′phan with the sword. So he put to death the one whom the king of Babylon had commissioned over the land. <a id="chapter41_verse3"></a><b><sup>3 </sup></b>And all the Jews who happened to be with him, that is, with Ged·a·li′ah, in Miz′pah, and the Chal·de′ans who were found there, that is, the men of war, Ish′ma·el struck down.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter41_verse4"></a><b><sup>4 </sup></b>And it came about on the second day of the putting of Ged·a·li′ah to death, when there was no one at all that knew it, <a id="chapter41_verse5"></a><b><sup>5 </sup></b>then there came men from She′chem, from Shi′loh <a id="page1025"></a>and from Sa·mar′i·a, eighty men with their beards shaved off and with their garments ripped apart and with cuts made upon themselves, and there were grain offering and frankincense in their hand to bring to the house of Jehovah. <a id="chapter41_verse6"></a><b><sup>6 </sup></b>So Ish′ma·el the son of Neth·a·ni′ah went out from Miz′pah to meet them, weeping while he was walking along. And it came about that as soon as he encountered them he proceeded to say to them: “Come to Ged·a·li′ah the son of A·hi′kam.” <a id="chapter41_verse7"></a><b><sup>7 </sup></b>But it occurred that as soon as they came into the midst of the city, Ish′ma·el the son of Neth·a·ni′ah went slaughtering them and throwing them into the midst of the cistern, he and the men that were with him.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter41_verse8"></a><b><sup>8 </sup></b>But there were ten men that were found among them who immediately said to Ish′ma·el: “Do not put us to death, for there exist in our possession hidden treasures in the field, wheat and barley and oil and honey.” So he refrained, and he did not put them to death in the midst of their brothers. <a id="chapter41_verse9"></a><b><sup>9 </sup></b>Now the cistern into which Ish′ma·el threw all the carcasses of the men that he had struck down was a great cistern, the one that King A′sa had made because of Ba′a·sha the king of Israel. It was the one that Ish′ma·el the son of Neth·a·ni′ah filled with those slain.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter41_verse10"></a><b><sup>10 </sup></b>Then Ish′ma·el took captive all the remnant of the people who were in Miz′pah, the daughters of the king and all the people who were remaining over in Miz′pah, whom Neb·u′zar·ad′an the chief of the bodyguard had put in the custody of Ged·a·li′ah the son of A·hi′kam. So Ish′ma·el the son of Neth·a·ni′ah took them captive and went off to cross over to the sons of Am′mon.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter41_verse11"></a><b><sup>11 </sup></b>In time Jo·ha′nan the son of Ka·re′ah and all the chiefs of the military forces who were with him got to hear all the bad that Ish′ma·el the son of Neth·a·ni′ah had done. <a id="chapter41_verse12"></a><b><sup>12 </sup></b>Consequently they took all the men and went off to fight against Ish′ma·el the son of Neth·a·ni′ah and found him by the abundant waters that were in Gib′e·on.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter41_verse13"></a><b><sup>13 </sup></b>Then it came about that as soon as all the people that were with Ish′ma·el saw Jo·ha′nan the son of Ka·re′ah and all the chiefs of the military forces who were with him, they began to rejoice. <a id="chapter41_verse14"></a><b><sup>14 </sup></b>And all the people whom Ish′ma·el had led captive from Miz′pah proceeded to turn around and return and go to Jo·ha′nan the son of Ka·re′ah. <a id="chapter41_verse15"></a><b><sup>15 </sup></b>And as for Ish′ma·el the son of Neth·a·ni′ah, he escaped with eight men from before Jo·ha′nan, that he might go to the sons of Am′mon.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter41_verse16"></a><b><sup>16 </sup></b>Jo·ha′nan the son of Ka·re′ah and all the chiefs of the military forces who were with him now took all the remnant of the people whom they brought back from Ish′ma·el the son of Neth·a·ni′ah, from Miz′pah, after he had struck down Ged·a·li′ah the son of A·hi′kam, able-bodied men, men of war, and the wives and the little children and the court officials, whom he brought back from Gib′e·on. <a id="chapter41_verse17"></a><b><sup>17 </sup></b>So they went and took up dwelling in the lodging place of Chim′ham that was beside Beth′le·hem, in order to go on and enter into Egypt, <a id="chapter41_verse18"></a><b><sup>18 </sup></b>because of the Chal·de′ans; for they had become afraid because of them, since Ish′ma·el the son of Neth·a·ni′ah had struck down Ged·a·li′ah the son of A·hi′kam, whom the king of Babylon had commissioned over the land.</p>
</body>
</html>
