<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="application/xhtml+xml; charset=utf-8" />
<title>Jeremiah 37</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/bi12.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
<p class="w_biblebookname">Jeremiah</p><p class="sb"><a id="chapter37"></a><a id="chapter37_verse1"></a><span class="w_ch"><b>37 </b></span>And King Zed·e·ki′ah the son of Jo·si′ah began to reign in place of Co·ni′ah the son of Je·hoi′a·kim, whom Neb·u·chad·rez′zar the king of Babylon made king in the land of Judah. <a id="chapter37_verse2"></a><b><sup>2 </sup></b>And he himself and his servants and the people of the land did not listen to the words of Jehovah that he spoke by means of Jeremiah the prophet.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter37_verse3"></a><b><sup>3 </sup></b>And King Zed·e·ki′ah proceeded to send Je·hu′cal the son of Shel·e·mi′ah and Zeph·a·ni′ah the son of Ma·a·sei′ah the priest to Jeremiah the prophet, saying: “Pray, please, in our behalf to Jehovah our God.” <a id="chapter37_verse4"></a><b><sup>4 </sup></b>And Jeremiah was coming in and going out into the midst of the people, as they had not put him in the house of detention. <a id="chapter37_verse5"></a><b><sup>5 </sup></b>And there was a military force of Phar′aoh that came out of Egypt; and the Chal·de′ans that were laying siege to Jerusalem got to hear the report about them. So they withdrew from against Jerusalem. <a id="chapter37_verse6"></a><b><sup>6 </sup></b>Then the word of Jehovah occurred to Jeremiah the prophet, saying: <a id="chapter37_verse7"></a><b><sup>7 </sup></b>“This is what Jehovah the God of Israel has said, ‘This is what <span class="smcap">YOU </span>men should say to the king of Judah, the one sending <span class="smcap">YOU </span>to me to inquire of me: “Look! The military force of Phar′aoh that is coming forth to <span class="smcap">YOU </span>people for the purpose of assistance will have to go back to their land, Egypt. <a id="chapter37_verse8"></a><b><sup>8 </sup></b>And the Chal·de′ans will certainly come back and fight against this city and capture it and burn it with fire.” <a id="chapter37_verse9"></a><b><sup>9 </sup></b>This is what Jehovah has said: “Do not deceive <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>souls, saying, ‘The Chal·de′ans will without fail go away from against us,’ because they will not go away. <a id="chapter37_verse10"></a><b><sup>10 </sup></b>For if <span class="smcap">YOU </span>men had struck down all the military force of the Chal·de′ans who are fighting <span class="smcap">YOU </span>and there remained over among them men pierced through, they would each one in his tent rise up and actually burn this city with fire.”’”</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter37_verse11"></a><b><sup>11 </sup></b>And it occurred when the military force of the Chal·de′ans had withdrawn themselves from against Jerusalem because of the military force of Phar′aoh, <a id="chapter37_verse12"></a><b><sup>12 </sup></b>that Jeremiah began to go forth from Jerusalem to go to the land of Benjamin and to get his <a id="page1020"></a>portion from there in the midst of the people. <a id="chapter37_verse13"></a><b><sup>13 </sup></b>So it came about when he was in the Gate of Benjamin that the officer holding the oversight, whose name was I·ri′jah the son of Shel·e·mi′ah the son of Han·a·ni′ah, was there. At once he took hold of Jeremiah the prophet, saying: “It is to the Chal·de′ans that you are falling away!” <a id="chapter37_verse14"></a><b><sup>14 </sup></b>But Jeremiah said: “It is false! I am not falling away to the Chal·de′ans.” But he did not listen to him. So I·ri′jah kept hold of Jeremiah and brought him in to the princes. <a id="chapter37_verse15"></a><b><sup>15 </sup></b>And the princes began to get indignant at Jeremiah, and they struck him and put him into the house of fetters, in the house of Je·hon′a·than the secretary, for this was what they had made the house of detention. <a id="chapter37_verse16"></a><b><sup>16 </sup></b>When Jeremiah came into the house of the cistern and into the vaulted rooms, then Jeremiah continued dwelling there many days.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter37_verse17"></a><b><sup>17 </sup></b>And King Zed·e·ki′ah proceeded to send and take him, and the king began asking him questions in his house in a place of concealment. And he went on to say: “Does there exist a word from Jehovah?” To this Jeremiah said: “There does exist!” And he said further: “Into the hand of the king of Babylon you will be given!”</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter37_verse18"></a><b><sup>18 </sup></b>Then Jeremiah said to King Zed·e·ki′ah: “In what way have I sinned against you and against your servants and against this people, so that <span class="smcap">YOU </span>men have put me into the house of detention? <a id="chapter37_verse19"></a><b><sup>19 </sup></b>Where, now, are <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>prophets who prophesied to <span class="smcap">YOU</span>, saying, ‘The king of Babylon will not come against <span class="smcap">YOU </span>men and against this land’? <a id="chapter37_verse20"></a><b><sup>20 </sup></b>And now listen, please, O my lord the king. May my request for favor, please, fall before you, and do not send me back to the house of Je·hon′a·than the secretary, that I may not die there.” <a id="chapter37_verse21"></a><b><sup>21 </sup></b>Accordingly King Zed·e·ki′ah commanded, and they then put Jeremiah in custody in the Courtyard of the Guard; and there was a giving of a round loaf of bread to him daily from the street of the bakers, until all the bread was exhausted from the city. And Jeremiah continued dwelling in the Courtyard of the Guard.</p>
</body>
</html>
