<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="application/xhtml+xml; charset=utf-8" />
<title>Jeremiah 7</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/bi12.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
<p class="w_biblebookname">Jeremiah</p><p class="sb"><a id="chapter7"></a><a id="chapter7_verse1"></a><span class="w_ch"><b>7 </b></span>The word that occurred to Jeremiah from Jehovah, saying: <a id="chapter7_verse2"></a><b><sup>2 </sup></b>“Stand in the gate of the house of Jehovah, and you must proclaim there this word, and you must say, ‘Hear the word of Jehovah, all <span class="smcap">YOU </span>of Judah, who are entering into these gates to bow down to Jehovah. <a id="chapter7_verse3"></a><b><sup>3 </sup></b>This is what Jehovah of armies, the God of Israel, has said: “Make <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>ways and <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>dealings good, and I will keep <span class="smcap">YOU </span>people residing in this place. <a id="chapter7_verse4"></a><b><sup>4 </sup></b>Do not put <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>trust in fallacious words, saying, ‘The temple of Jehovah, the temple of Jehovah, the temple of Jehovah they are!’ <a id="chapter7_verse5"></a><b><sup>5 </sup></b>For if <span class="smcap">YOU </span>will positively make <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>ways and <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>dealings good, if <span class="smcap">YOU </span>will positively carry out justice between a man and his companion, <a id="chapter7_verse6"></a><b><sup>6 </sup></b>if no alien resident, no fatherless boy and no widow <span class="smcap">YOU </span>will oppress, and innocent blood <span class="smcap">YOU </span>will not shed in this place, and after other gods <span class="smcap">YOU </span>will not walk for calamity to yourselves, <a id="chapter7_verse7"></a><b><sup>7 </sup></b>I, in turn, shall certainly keep <span class="smcap">YOU </span>residing in this place, in the land that I gave to <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>forefathers, from time indefinite even to time indefinite.”’”</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter7_verse8"></a><b><sup>8 </sup></b>“Here <span class="smcap">YOU </span>are putting <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>trust in fallacious words—it will certainly be of no benefit at all. <a id="chapter7_verse9"></a><b><sup>9 </sup></b>Can there be stealing, murdering <a id="page974"></a>and committing adultery and swearing falsely and making sacrificial smoke to Ba′al and walking after other gods whom <span class="smcap">YOU </span>had not known, <a id="chapter7_verse10"></a><b><sup>10 </sup></b>and must <span class="smcap">YOU </span>come and stand before me in this house upon which my name has been called, and must <span class="smcap">YOU </span>say, ‘We shall certainly be delivered,’ in the face of doing all these detestable things? <a id="chapter7_verse11"></a><b><sup>11 </sup></b>Has this house upon which my name has been called become a mere cave of robbers in <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>eyes? Here I myself also have seen it,” is the utterance of Jehovah.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter7_verse12"></a><b><sup>12 </sup></b>“‘However, <span class="smcap">GO</span>, now, to my place that was in Shi′loh, where I caused my name to reside at first, and see what I did to it because of the badness of my people Israel. <a id="chapter7_verse13"></a><b><sup>13 </sup></b>And now for the reason that <span class="smcap">YOU </span>kept doing all these works,’ is the utterance of Jehovah, ‘and I kept speaking to <span class="smcap">YOU</span>, getting up early and speaking, but <span class="smcap">YOU </span>did not listen, and I kept calling <span class="smcap">YOU</span>, but <span class="smcap">YOU </span>did not answer, <a id="chapter7_verse14"></a><b><sup>14 </sup></b>I will do also to the house upon which my name has been called, in which <span class="smcap">YOU </span>are trusting, and to the place that I gave to <span class="smcap">YOU </span>and to <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>forefathers, just as I did to Shi′loh. <a id="chapter7_verse15"></a><b><sup>15 </sup></b>And I will throw <span class="smcap">YOU </span>out from before my face, just as I threw out all <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>brothers, the whole offspring of E′phra·im.’</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter7_verse16"></a><b><sup>16 </sup></b>“And as for you, do not pray in behalf of this people, neither raise in their behalf an entreating cry or a prayer nor beseech me, for I shall not be listening to you. <a id="chapter7_verse17"></a><b><sup>17 </sup></b>Are you not seeing what they are doing in the cities of Judah and in the streets of Jerusalem? <a id="chapter7_verse18"></a><b><sup>18 </sup></b>The sons are picking up sticks of wood, and the fathers are lighting the fire, and the wives are kneading flour dough in order to make sacrificial cakes to the ‘queen of the heavens’; and there is a pouring out of drink offerings to other gods for the purpose of offending me. <a id="chapter7_verse19"></a><b><sup>19 </sup></b>‘Is it I whom they are offending?’ is the utterance of Jehovah. ‘Is it not they themselves, for the purpose of shame to their faces?’ <a id="chapter7_verse20"></a><b><sup>20 </sup></b>Therefore this is what the Sovereign Lord Jehovah has said, ‘Look! My anger and my rage are being poured forth upon this place, upon mankind and upon domestic animal, and upon the tree of the field and upon the fruitage of the ground; and it must burn, and it will not be extinguished.’</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter7_verse21"></a><b><sup>21 </sup></b>“This is what Jehovah of armies, the God of Israel, has said, ‘Add those whole burnt offerings of <span class="smcap">YOURS </span>to <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>sacrifices and eat flesh. <a id="chapter7_verse22"></a><b><sup>22 </sup></b>For I did not speak with <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>forefathers, nor did I command them in the day of my bringing them out from the land of Egypt concerning the matters of whole burnt offering and sacrifice. <a id="chapter7_verse23"></a><b><sup>23 </sup></b>But this word I did express in command upon them, saying: “Obey my voice, and I will become <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>God, and <span class="smcap">YOU </span>yourselves will become my people; and <span class="smcap">YOU </span>must walk in all the way that I shall command <span class="smcap">YOU</span>, in order that it may go well with <span class="smcap">YOU</span>.”’ <a id="chapter7_verse24"></a><b><sup>24 </sup></b>But they did not listen, neither did they incline their ear, but they went walking in the counsels in the stubbornness of their bad heart, so that they became backward in direction and not forward, <a id="chapter7_verse25"></a><b><sup>25 </sup></b>from the day that <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>forefathers came forth out of the land of Egypt until this day; and I kept sending to <span class="smcap">YOU </span>all my servants the prophets, daily getting up early and sending them. <a id="chapter7_verse26"></a><b><sup>26 </sup></b>But they did not listen to me, and they did not <a id="page975"></a>incline their ear, but they kept hardening their neck. They acted worse than their forefathers!</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter7_verse27"></a><b><sup>27 </sup></b>“And you must speak to them all these words, but they will not listen to you; and you must call to them, but they will not answer you. <a id="chapter7_verse28"></a><b><sup>28 </sup></b>And you must say to them, ‘This is the nation whose people have not obeyed the voice of Jehovah its God, and have not taken discipline. Faithfulness has perished, and it has been cut off from their mouth.’</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter7_verse29"></a><b><sup>29 </sup></b>“Shear off your uncut hair and throw it away, and upon the bare hills raise a dirge, for Jehovah has rejected and will desert the generation with which he is furious. <a id="chapter7_verse30"></a><b><sup>30 </sup></b>‘For the sons of Judah have done what is bad in my eyes,’ is the utterance of Jehovah. ‘They have set their disgusting things in the house upon which my name has been called, in order to defile it. <a id="chapter7_verse31"></a><b><sup>31 </sup></b>And they have built the high places of To′pheth, which is in the valley of the son of Hin′nom, in order to burn their sons and their daughters in the fire, a thing that I had not commanded and that had not come up into my heart.’</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter7_verse32"></a><b><sup>32 </sup></b>“‘Therefore, look! days are coming,’ is the utterance of Jehovah, ‘when it will no more be said to be To′pheth and the valley of the son of Hin′nom, but the valley of the killing; and they will have to bury in To′pheth without there being enough place. <a id="chapter7_verse33"></a><b><sup>33 </sup></b>And the dead bodies of this people must become food for the flying creatures of the heavens and for the beasts of the earth, with nobody to make them tremble. <a id="chapter7_verse34"></a><b><sup>34 </sup></b>And I will cause to cease from the cities of Judah and from the streets of Jerusalem the voice of exultation and the voice of rejoicing, the voice of the bridegroom and the voice of the bride; for the land will become nothing but a devastated place.’”</p>
</body>
</html>
