<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="application/xhtml+xml; charset=utf-8" />
<title>Lamentations 4</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/bi12.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
<p class="w_biblebookname">Lamentations</p><p class="ss"><span class="smcap">א </span>[<i>ʼA′leph</i>]</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter4"></a><a id="chapter4_verse1"></a><span class="w_ch"><b>4 </b></span>O how the gold that shines becomes dim, the good gold!</p>
<p class="sz">O how the holy stones are poured out at the head of all the streets!</p>
<p class="ss"><span class="smcap">ב </span>[<i>Behth</i>]</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter4_verse2"></a> <b><sup>2 </sup></b>As for the precious sons of Zion, those who were <a id="page1054"></a>weighed against refined gold,</p>
<p class="sz">O how they have been reckoned as large jars of earthenware, the work of the hands of a potter!</p>
<p class="ss"><span class="smcap">ג </span>[<i>Gi′mel</i>]</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter4_verse3"></a> <b><sup>3 </sup></b>Even jackals themselves have presented the udder. They have suckled their cubs.</p>
<p class="sz">The daughter of my people becomes cruel, like ostriches in the wilderness.</p>
<p class="ss"><span class="smcap">ד </span>[<i>Da′leth</i>]</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter4_verse4"></a> <b><sup>4 </sup></b>The tongue of the suckling has cleaved to its palate because of thirst.</p>
<p class="sz">Children themselves have asked for bread. There is no one dealing it out to them.</p>
<p class="ss"><span class="smcap">ה </span>[<i>He</i>ʼ]</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter4_verse5"></a> <b><sup>5 </sup></b>The very ones that were eating pleasant things have been struck with astonishment in the streets.</p>
<p class="sz">The very ones that were being reared in scarlet have had to embrace ash heaps.</p>
<p class="ss"><span class="smcap">ו </span>[<i>Waw</i>]</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter4_verse6"></a> <b><sup>6 </sup></b>The punishment for the error of the daughter of my people also becomes greater than the punishment for the sin of Sod′om,</p>
<p class="sz">Which was overthrown as in a moment, and to which no hands turned helpfully.</p>
<p class="ss"><span class="smcap">ז </span>[<i>Za′yin</i>]</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter4_verse7"></a> <b><sup>7 </sup></b>Her Naz′i·rites were purer than snow; they were whiter than milk.</p>
<p class="sz">They were in fact more ruddy than corals; their polish was as the sapphire.</p>
<p class="ss"><span class="smcap">ח </span>[<i>Chehth</i>]</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter4_verse8"></a> <b><sup>8 </sup></b>Their aspect has become darker than blackness itself. They have not been recognized in the streets.</p>
<p class="sz">Their skin has shriveled upon their bones. It has become just as dry as a tree.</p>
<p class="ss"><span class="smcap">ט </span>[<i>Tehth</i>]</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter4_verse9"></a> <b><sup>9 </sup></b>Better have those slain with the sword proved to be than those slain by famine,</p>
<p class="sz">Because these pine away, pierced through for lack of the produce of the open field.</p>
<p class="ss"><span class="smcap">י </span>[<i>Yohdh</i>]</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter4_verse10"></a><b><sup>10 </sup></b>The very hands of compassionate women have boiled their own children.</p>
<p class="sz">They have become as bread of consolation to one during the breakdown of the daughter of my people.</p>
<p class="ss"><span class="smcap">כ </span>[<i>Kaph</i>]</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter4_verse11"></a><b><sup>11 </sup></b>Jehovah has accomplished his rage. He has poured out his burning anger.</p>
<p class="sz">And he sets a fire ablaze in Zion, which eats up her foundations.</p>
<p class="ss"><span class="smcap">ל </span>[<i>La′medh</i>]</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter4_verse12"></a><b><sup>12 </sup></b>The kings of the earth and all the inhabitants of the productive land had not believed</p>
<p class="sz">That the adversary and the enemy would come into the gates of Jerusalem.</p>
<p class="ss"><span class="smcap">מ </span>[<i>Mem</i>]</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter4_verse13"></a><b><sup>13 </sup></b>Because of the sins of her prophets, the errors of her priests,</p>
<p class="sz">There were in the midst of her those pouring out the blood of righteous ones.</p>
<p class="ss"><span class="smcap">נ </span>[<i>Nun</i>]</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter4_verse14"></a><b><sup>14 </sup></b>They have wandered about as blind in the streets. They have become polluted with blood,</p>
<p class="sz"><a id="page1055"></a>So that none are able to touch their garments.</p>
<p class="ss"><span class="smcap">ס </span>[<i>Sa′mekh</i>]</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter4_verse15"></a><b><sup>15 </sup></b>“Get out of the way! Unclean!” they have called out to them. “Get out of the way! Get out of the way! Do not touch!”</p>
<p class="sz">For they have gone homeless. They have also wandered about. People have said among the nations: “They will not reside again as aliens.</p>
<p class="ss"><span class="smcap">פ </span>[<i>Peʼ</i>]</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter4_verse16"></a><b><sup>16 </sup></b>The face of Jehovah has divided them up. He will not look upon them again.</p>
<p class="sz">Men will certainly show no consideration even for the priests. They will certainly show no favor even to the old men.”</p>
<p class="ss"><span class="smcap">ע </span>[<i>ʽA′yin</i>]</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter4_verse17"></a><b><sup>17 </sup></b>While we yet are, our eyes keep pining away in vain for assistance to us.</p>
<p class="sz">During our looking about we have looked out to a nation that can bring no salvation.</p>
<p class="ss"><span class="smcap">צ </span>[<i>Tsa·dheh′</i>]</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter4_verse18"></a><b><sup>18 </sup></b>They have hunted our steps so that there is no walking in our public squares.</p>
<p class="sz">Our end has drawn near. Our days have come to their full, for our end has come.</p>
<p class="ss"><span class="smcap">ק </span>[<i>Qohph</i>]</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter4_verse19"></a><b><sup>19 </sup></b>Swifter than the eagles of the heavens our pursuers have proved to be.</p>
<p class="sz">Upon the mountains they have hotly pursued us. In the wilderness they have lain in wait for us.</p>
<p class="ss"><span class="smcap">ר </span>[<i>Rehsh</i>]</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter4_verse20"></a><b><sup>20 </sup></b>The very breath of our nostrils, the anointed one of Jehovah, has been captured in their large pit,</p>
<p class="sz">The one of whom we have said: “In his shade we shall live among the nations.”</p>
<p class="ss"><span class="smcap">ש </span>[<i>Sin</i>]</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter4_verse21"></a><b><sup>21 </sup></b>Exult and rejoice, O daughter of E′dom, dwelling as you do in the land of Uz.</p>
<p class="sz">To you also the cup will pass along. You will become drunk and show yourself in nakedness.</p>
<p class="ss"><span class="smcap">ת </span>[<i>Taw</i>]</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter4_verse22"></a><b><sup>22 </sup></b>Your error, O daughter of Zion, has come to its finish. He will not carry you off into exile again.</p>
<p class="sz">He has turned his attention to your error, O daughter of E′dom. He has uncovered your sins.</p>
</body>
</html>
