<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="application/xhtml+xml; charset=utf-8" />
<title>Ezekiel 2</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/bi12.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
<p class="w_biblebookname">Ezekiel</p><p class="sb"><a id="chapter2"></a><a id="chapter2_verse1"></a><span class="w_ch"><b>2 </b></span>And he proceeded to say to me: “Son of man, stand up upon your feet that I may speak with you.” <a id="chapter2_verse2"></a><b><sup>2 </sup></b>And spirit began to come into me as soon as he spoke to me, and it finally made me stand up upon my feet that I might hear the One speaking to me.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter2_verse3"></a><b><sup>3 </sup></b>And he went on to say to me: “Son of man, I am sending you to the sons of Israel, to rebellious nations that have rebelled against me. They themselves and their forefathers have transgressed against me down to this selfsame day. <a id="chapter2_verse4"></a><b><sup>4 </sup></b>And the sons insolent of face and hard of heart—I am sending you to them, and you must say to them, ‘This is what the Sovereign Lord Jehovah has said.’ <a id="chapter2_verse5"></a><b><sup>5 </sup></b>And as for them, whether they will hear or will refrain—for they are a rebellious house—they will certainly know also that a prophet himself happened to be in the midst of them.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter2_verse6"></a><b><sup>6 </sup></b>“And you, O son of man, do not be afraid of them; and of their words do not be afraid, because there are obstinate ones and things pricking you and it is among scorpions that you are dwelling. Of their words do not you be afraid, and at their faces do not you be struck with terror, for they are a rebellious house. <a id="chapter2_verse7"></a><b><sup>7 </sup></b>And you must speak my words to them, regardless of whether they hear or they refrain, for they are a case of rebellion.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter2_verse8"></a><b><sup>8 </sup></b>“And you, O son of man, hear what I am speaking to you. Do not become rebellious like the rebellious house. Open your mouth and eat what I am giving you.”</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter2_verse9"></a><b><sup>9 </sup></b>And I began to see, and, look! there was a hand thrust out to me, and, look! in it there was the roll of a book. <a id="chapter2_verse10"></a><b><sup>10 </sup></b>And he gradually spread it out before me, and it was written upon in front and on the back; and there were written in it dirges and moaning and wailing.</p>
</body>
</html>
