<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="application/xhtml+xml; charset=utf-8" />
<title>Ezekiel 48</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/bi12.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
<p class="w_biblebookname">Ezekiel</p><p class="sb"><a id="chapter48"></a><a id="chapter48_verse1"></a><span class="w_ch"><b>48 </b></span>“And these are the names of the tribes. From the northern extremity, on the side by the way of Heth′lon to the entering in to Ha′math, Ha′zar-e′nan, the boundary of Damascus northward, on the side of Ha′math; and it must prove to have an eastern border and the western, Dan one portion. <a id="chapter48_verse2"></a><b><sup>2 </sup></b>And on the boundary of Dan, from the eastern border to the western border, Ash′er one. <a id="chapter48_verse3"></a><b><sup>3 </sup></b>And on the boundary of Ash′er, from the eastern border even to the western border, Naph′ta·li one. <a id="chapter48_verse4"></a><b><sup>4 </sup></b>And on the boundary of Naph′ta·li, from the eastern border to the western border, Ma·nas′seh one. <a id="chapter48_verse5"></a><b><sup>5 </sup></b>And on the boundary of Ma·nas′seh, from the eastern border to the western border, E′phra·im one. <a id="chapter48_verse6"></a><b><sup>6 </sup></b>And on the boundary of E′phra·im, from the eastern border even to the western border, Reu′ben one. <a id="chapter48_verse7"></a><b><sup>7 </sup></b>And on the boundary of Reu′ben, from the eastern border to the western border, Judah one. <a id="chapter48_verse8"></a><b><sup>8 </sup></b>And on the boundary of Judah, from the eastern border to the western border, the contribution that <span class="smcap">YOU </span>people should contribute should prove to be twenty-five thousand cubits in width, and the length according to one of the portions from the eastern border to the western border. And the sanctuary must prove to be in the midst of it.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter48_verse9"></a><b><sup>9 </sup></b>“As regards the contribution that <span class="smcap">YOU </span>should contribute to Jehovah, the length will be twenty-five thousand cubits and the width ten thousand. <a id="chapter48_verse10"></a><b><sup>10 </sup></b>And as to these there should prove to be the holy contribution for the priests, to the north twenty-five thousand cubits, and to the west a width of ten thousand, and to the east a width of ten thousand, and to the south a length of twenty-five thousand. And the sanctuary of Jehovah must prove to be in the midst of it. <a id="chapter48_verse11"></a><b><sup>11 </sup></b>It will be for the priests, those who are sanctified from the sons of Za′dok, who took care of the obligation toward me, who did not wander away when the sons of Israel wandered away, just as the Levites wandered away. <a id="chapter48_verse12"></a><b><sup>12 </sup></b>And they must come to have a contribution from the contribution of the land as something most holy, on the boundary of the Levites.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter48_verse13"></a><b><sup>13 </sup></b>“And the Levites should have, right next to the territory of the priests, twenty-five thousand cubits in length, and in width ten thousand; the whole length being twenty-five thousand and width being ten thousand. <a id="chapter48_verse14"></a><b><sup>14 </sup></b>And they should not sell any of it, nor should one make an exchange, nor should one cause the choicest of the land to pass away from them; for it is something holy to Jehovah.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter48_verse15"></a><b><sup>15 </sup></b>“As regards the five thousand cubits that is left remaining in width alongside the twenty-five thousand, it is something profane for the city, for a dwelling place and for pasture ground. And the city must come to be in the midst of it. <a id="chapter48_verse16"></a><b><sup>16 </sup></b>And these are the city’s measurements: the northern border four thousand five hundred cubits, and the southern border four thousand five hundred, and the eastern border four thousand five hundred, and the western border four thousand five hundred. <a id="chapter48_verse17"></a><b><sup>17 </sup></b>And the city must come to have a pasture ground, to the north two hundred and fifty cubits, and to the south two hundred and fifty, and to the east <a id="page1130"></a>two hundred and fifty, and to the west two hundred and fifty.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter48_verse18"></a><b><sup>18 </sup></b>“And what is left remaining over in length will be exactly as the holy contribution, ten thousand cubits to the east, and ten thousand to the west; and it must prove to be exactly as the holy contribution, and its produce must come to be for bread for the ones serving the city. <a id="chapter48_verse19"></a><b><sup>19 </sup></b>And those who are serving the city out of all the tribes of Israel will cultivate it.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter48_verse20"></a><b><sup>20 </sup></b>“The whole contribution is twenty-five thousand cubits by twenty-five thousand. A foursquare part <span class="smcap">YOU </span>people should contribute as the holy contribution with the possession of the city.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter48_verse21"></a><b><sup>21 </sup></b>“And what is left over will belong to the chieftain, on this side and on that side of the holy contribution and of the possession of the city, alongside the twenty-five thousand cubits of the contribution to the eastern boundary; and on the west alongside the twenty-five thousand cubits to the western boundary. Exactly like the portions, it will be for the chieftain. And the holy contribution and the sanctuary of the House must prove to be in the midst of it.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter48_verse22"></a><b><sup>22 </sup></b>“And as regards the possession of the Levites and the possession of the city, in between what belongs to the chieftain it should prove to be. Between the boundary of Judah and the boundary of Benjamin it should come to belong to the chieftain.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter48_verse23"></a><b><sup>23 </sup></b>“And as regards the rest of the tribes, from the eastern border to the western border, Benjamin one portion. <a id="chapter48_verse24"></a><b><sup>24 </sup></b>And by the boundary of Benjamin, from the eastern border to the western border, Sim′e·on one. <a id="chapter48_verse25"></a><b><sup>25 </sup></b>And by the boundary of Sim′e·on, from the eastern border to the western border, Is′sa·char one. <a id="chapter48_verse26"></a><b><sup>26 </sup></b>And by the boundary of Is′sa·char, from the eastern border to the western border, Zeb′u·lun one. <a id="chapter48_verse27"></a><b><sup>27 </sup></b>And by the boundary of Zeb′u·lun, from the eastern border to the western border, Gad one. <a id="chapter48_verse28"></a><b><sup>28 </sup></b>And by the boundary of Gad, to the southern border, it will be southward; and the boundary must prove to be from Ta′mar to the waters of Mer′i·bath-ka′desh, to the torrent valley, as far as the Great Sea.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter48_verse29"></a><b><sup>29 </sup></b>“This will be the land that <span class="smcap">YOU </span>people should cause to fall by lot for inheritance to the tribes of Israel, and these will be their shares,” is the utterance of the Sovereign Lord Jehovah.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter48_verse30"></a><b><sup>30 </sup></b>“And these will be the outlets of the city: On the northern border, four thousand five hundred cubits will be the measurement.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter48_verse31"></a><b><sup>31 </sup></b>“And the gates of the city will be according to the names of the tribes of Israel, three gates being on the north, the gate of Reu′ben, one; the gate of Judah, one; the gate of Le′vi, one.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter48_verse32"></a><b><sup>32 </sup></b>“And on the eastern border there will be four thousand five hundred cubits, and three gates, even the gate of Joseph, one; the gate of Benjamin, one; the gate of Dan, one.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter48_verse33"></a><b><sup>33 </sup></b>“And the southern border will be four thousand five hundred cubits as to measurement, with three gates, the gate of Sim′e·on, one; the gate of Is′sa·char, one; the gate of Zeb′u·lun, one.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter48_verse34"></a><b><sup>34 </sup></b>“The western border will be four thousand five hundred cubits, there being three gates, the gate of Gad, one; the gate of Ash′er, one; the gate of Naph′ta·li, one.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter48_verse35"></a><b><sup>35 </sup></b>“Round about there will be eighteen thousand cubits; and the name of the city from that day on will be Jehovah Himself Is There.”</p>
</body>
</html>
