<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="application/xhtml+xml; charset=utf-8" />
<title>Ezekiel 36</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/bi12.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
<p class="w_biblebookname">Ezekiel</p><p class="sb"><a id="chapter36"></a><a id="chapter36_verse1"></a><span class="w_ch"><b>36 </b></span>“And as for you, O son of man, prophesy concerning the mountains of Israel, and you must say, ‘O mountains of Israel, hear the word of Jehovah. <a id="chapter36_verse2"></a><b><sup>2 </sup></b>This is what the Sovereign Lord Jehovah has said: “For the reason that the enemy has said against <span class="smcap">YOU</span>, ‘Aha! Even the high places of old time—as a possession it has become ours!’”’</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter36_verse3"></a><b><sup>3 </sup></b>“Therefore prophesy, and you must say, ‘This is what the Sovereign Lord Jehovah has said: “For the reason, even for the reason that there has been a lying desolate and a snapping at <span class="smcap">YOU </span>from all sides, in order for <span class="smcap">YOU </span>to become a possession to the remaining ones of the nations and <span class="smcap">YOU </span>continue being talked about with the tongue and there is a bad report among people, <a id="chapter36_verse4"></a><b><sup>4 </sup></b>therefore, O mountains of Israel, hear the word of the Sovereign Lord Jehovah! This is what the Sovereign Lord Jehovah has said to the mountains and to the hills, to the streambeds and to the valleys and to the devastated places that were laid desolate <a id="page1109"></a>and to the abandoned cities that have come to be for plunder and for ridicule to the remaining ones of the nations that are round about; <a id="chapter36_verse5"></a><b><sup>5 </sup></b>therefore this is what the Sovereign Lord Jehovah has said, ‘Certainly in the fire of my zeal I will speak against the remaining ones of the nations and against E′dom, all of it, those who have given my land to themselves as a possession with the rejoicing of all the heart, with scorn in the soul, for the sake of its pasture ground and for the plunder.’”’</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter36_verse6"></a><b><sup>6 </sup></b>“Therefore prophesy concerning the soil of Israel, and you must say to the mountains and to the hills, to the streambeds and to the valleys, ‘This is what the Sovereign Lord Jehovah has said: “Look! I myself in my zeal and in my rage must speak, for the reason that humiliation by nations is what <span class="smcap">YOU </span>have borne.”’</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter36_verse7"></a><b><sup>7 </sup></b>“Therefore this is what the Sovereign Lord Jehovah has said, ‘I myself have raised my hand in an oath that the nations that <span class="smcap">YOU </span>have round about—they themselves will bear their own humiliation. <a id="chapter36_verse8"></a><b><sup>8 </sup></b>And <span class="smcap">YOU </span>yourselves, O mountains of Israel, will give forth <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>very own boughs and bear <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>own fruitage for my people Israel, for they have drawn near to the point of coming in. <a id="chapter36_verse9"></a><b><sup>9 </sup></b>For here I am in favor of <span class="smcap">YOU</span>, and I shall certainly turn toward <span class="smcap">YOU</span>, and <span class="smcap">YOU </span>will actually be cultivated and sown with seed. <a id="chapter36_verse10"></a><b><sup>10 </sup></b>And I will multiply upon <span class="smcap">YOU </span>humankind, the whole house of Israel, all of it, and the cities must become inhabited, and the devastated places themselves will be rebuilt. <a id="chapter36_verse11"></a><b><sup>11 </sup></b>Yes, I will multiply upon <span class="smcap">YOU </span>humankind and animalkind, and they will certainly multiply and become fruitful, and I shall actually cause <span class="smcap">YOU </span>to be inhabited as in <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>former condition and I will do more good than in <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>initial state; and <span class="smcap">YOU </span>will have to know that I am Jehovah. <a id="chapter36_verse12"></a><b><sup>12 </sup></b>And upon <span class="smcap">YOU </span>I will cause humankind to walk, even my people Israel, and they must take possession of <span class="smcap">YOU</span>, and <span class="smcap">YOU </span>must become a hereditary possession to them, and <span class="smcap">YOU </span>will not bereave them again of any more children.’”</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter36_verse13"></a><b><sup>13 </sup></b>“This is what the Sovereign Lord Jehovah has said, ‘For the reason that there are those saying to <span class="smcap">YOU</span>: “A devourer of humankind is what you yourself are, and a land bereaving your nations of children is what you have become,”’ <a id="chapter36_verse14"></a><b><sup>14 </sup></b>‘therefore humankind you will no more devour, and your nations you will no more bereave of children,’ is the utterance of the Sovereign Lord Jehovah. <a id="chapter36_verse15"></a><b><sup>15 </sup></b>‘And I shall cause no further humiliating talk by the nations to be heard concerning you, and reproach by peoples you will bear no more, and your nations you will no more cause to stumble,’ is the utterance of the Sovereign Lord Jehovah.”</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter36_verse16"></a><b><sup>16 </sup></b>And the word of Jehovah continued to occur to me, saying: <a id="chapter36_verse17"></a><b><sup>17 </sup></b>“Son of man, the house of Israel were dwelling upon their soil, and they kept making it unclean with their way and with their dealings. Like the uncleanness of menstruation their way has become before me. <a id="chapter36_verse18"></a><b><sup>18 </sup></b>And I proceeded to pour out my rage upon them on account of the blood that they had poured out upon the land, which land they had made unclean with their dungy idols. <a id="chapter36_verse19"></a><b><sup>19 </sup></b>And I proceeded to scatter them among the nations, so that they were dispersed among the lands. According to their way and according to their dealings I judged them. <a id="chapter36_verse20"></a><b><sup>20 </sup></b>So they came in to the nations where they came in, and people proceeded <a id="page1110"></a>to profane my holy name in saying with reference to them, ‘These are the people of Jehovah, and from his land they have gone out.’ <a id="chapter36_verse21"></a><b><sup>21 </sup></b>And I shall have compassion on my holy name, which the house of Israel have profaned among the nations where they have come in.”</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter36_verse22"></a><b><sup>22 </sup></b>“Therefore say to the house of Israel, ‘This is what the Sovereign Lord Jehovah has said: “Not for <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>sakes am I doing it, O house of Israel, but for my holy name, which <span class="smcap">YOU </span>have profaned among the nations where <span class="smcap">YOU </span>have come in.”’ <a id="chapter36_verse23"></a><b><sup>23 </sup></b>‘And I shall certainly sanctify my great name, which was being profaned among the nations, which <span class="smcap">YOU </span>profaned in the midst of them; and the nations will have to know that I am Jehovah,’ is the utterance of the Sovereign Lord Jehovah, ‘when I am sanctified among <span class="smcap">YOU </span>before their eyes. <a id="chapter36_verse24"></a><b><sup>24 </sup></b>And I will take <span class="smcap">YOU </span>out of the nations and collect <span class="smcap">YOU </span>together out of all the lands and bring <span class="smcap">YOU </span>in upon <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>soil. <a id="chapter36_verse25"></a><b><sup>25 </sup></b>And I will sprinkle upon <span class="smcap">YOU </span>clean water, and <span class="smcap">YOU </span>will become clean; from all <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>impurities and from all <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>dungy idols I shall cleanse <span class="smcap">YOU</span>. <a id="chapter36_verse26"></a><b><sup>26 </sup></b>And I will give <span class="smcap">YOU </span>a new heart, and a new spirit I shall put inside <span class="smcap">YOU</span>, and I will take away the heart of stone from <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>flesh and give <span class="smcap">YOU </span>a heart of flesh. <a id="chapter36_verse27"></a><b><sup>27 </sup></b>And my spirit I shall put inside <span class="smcap">YOU</span>, and I will act so that in my regulations <span class="smcap">YOU </span>will walk, and my judicial decisions <span class="smcap">YOU </span>will keep and actually carry out. <a id="chapter36_verse28"></a><b><sup>28 </sup></b>And <span class="smcap">YOU </span>will certainly dwell in the land that I gave to <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>forefathers, and <span class="smcap">YOU </span>must become my people and I myself shall become <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>God.’</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter36_verse29"></a><b><sup>29 </sup></b>“‘And I will save <span class="smcap">YOU </span>from all <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>impurities and call to the grain and make it abound, and I shall put upon <span class="smcap">YOU </span>no famine. <a id="chapter36_verse30"></a><b><sup>30 </sup></b>And I shall certainly make the fruitage of the tree abound, and the produce of the field, in order that <span class="smcap">YOU </span>may no more receive among the nations the reproach of famine. <a id="chapter36_verse31"></a><b><sup>31 </sup></b>And <span class="smcap">YOU </span>will be bound to remember <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>bad ways and <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>dealings that were not good, and <span class="smcap">YOU </span>will be bound to feel a loathing at <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>own person on account of <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>errors and on account of <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>detestable things. <a id="chapter36_verse32"></a><b><sup>32 </sup></b>Not for <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>sakes am I doing this,’ is the utterance of the Sovereign Lord Jehovah, ‘let it be known to <span class="smcap">YOU</span>. Be ashamed and feel humiliation because of <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>ways, O house of Israel.’</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter36_verse33"></a><b><sup>33 </sup></b>“This is what the Sovereign Lord Jehovah has said, ‘In the day of my cleansing <span class="smcap">YOU </span>from all <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>errors I will also cause the cities to be inhabited, and the devastated places must be rebuilt. <a id="chapter36_verse34"></a><b><sup>34 </sup></b>And the desolated land itself will be cultivated, whereas it had become a desolate waste before the eyes of every passerby. <a id="chapter36_verse35"></a><b><sup>35 </sup></b>And people will certainly say: “That land yonder which was laid desolate has become like the garden of E′den, and the cities that were a waste and that were laid desolate and that were torn down are fortified; they have become inhabited.” <a id="chapter36_verse36"></a><b><sup>36 </sup></b>And the nations that will be left remaining round about <span class="smcap">YOU </span>will have to know that I myself, Jehovah, have built the things torn down, I have planted what has been laid desolate. I myself, Jehovah, have spoken and I have done it.’</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter36_verse37"></a><b><sup>37 </sup></b>“This is what the Sovereign Lord Jehovah has said, ‘This is what I shall yet let myself be searched for by the house of Israel to do for them: I shall multiply them like a flock with men. <a id="chapter36_verse38"></a><b><sup>38 </sup></b>Like a flock of holy persons, like the flock of Jerusalem in <a id="page1111"></a>her festal seasons, thus the cities that had been a waste will become full of a flock of men; and people will have to know that I am Jehovah.’”</p>
</body>
</html>
