<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="application/xhtml+xml; charset=utf-8" />
<title>Ezekiel 11</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/bi12.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
<p class="w_biblebookname">Ezekiel</p><p class="sb"><a id="chapter11"></a><a id="chapter11_verse1"></a><span class="w_ch"><b>11 </b></span>And a spirit proceeded to lift me up and bring me to the eastern gate of the house of Jehovah that is facing eastward, and, look! in the entrance of the gate there were twenty-five men, and I got to see in the midst of them Ja·az·a·ni′ah the son of Az′zur and Pel·a·ti′ah the son of Be·nai′ah, princes of the people. <a id="chapter11_verse2"></a><b><sup>2 </sup></b>Then he said to me: “Son of man, these are the men that are scheming hurtfulness and advising bad counsel against this city; <a id="chapter11_verse3"></a><b><sup>3 </sup></b>that are saying, ‘Is not the building of houses close at hand? She is the widemouthed cooking pot, and we are the flesh.’</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="page1068"></a><a id="chapter11_verse4"></a><b><sup>4 </sup></b>“Therefore prophesy against them. Prophesy, O son of man.”</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter11_verse5"></a><b><sup>5 </sup></b>Then the spirit of Jehovah fell upon me, and he went on to say to me: “Say, ‘This is what Jehovah has said: “Y<span class="smcap">OU </span>people said the right thing, O house of Israel; and as regards the things that come up in <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>spirit, I myself have known it. <a id="chapter11_verse6"></a><b><sup>6 </sup></b>Y<span class="smcap">OU </span>have caused <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>slain ones in this city to be many, and <span class="smcap">YOU </span>have filled her streets with the slain ones.”’” <a id="chapter11_verse7"></a><b><sup>7 </sup></b>“Therefore this is what the Sovereign Lord Jehovah has said, ‘As regards <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>slain ones whom <span class="smcap">YOU </span>people have put in the midst of her, they are the flesh, and she is the widemouthed cooking pot; and there will be a bringing forth of <span class="smcap">YOU </span>yourselves out of the midst of her.’”</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter11_verse8"></a><b><sup>8 </sup></b>“‘A sword <span class="smcap">YOU </span>have feared, and a sword I shall bring upon <span class="smcap">YOU</span>,’ is the utterance of the Sovereign Lord Jehovah. <a id="chapter11_verse9"></a><b><sup>9 </sup></b>‘And I shall certainly bring <span class="smcap">YOU </span>forth out of the midst of her and give <span class="smcap">YOU </span>into the hand of strangers and execute upon <span class="smcap">YOU </span>acts of judgment. <a id="chapter11_verse10"></a><b><sup>10 </sup></b>By the sword <span class="smcap">YOU </span>will fall. On the border of Israel I shall judge <span class="smcap">YOU </span>people; and <span class="smcap">YOU </span>will have to know that I am Jehovah. <a id="chapter11_verse11"></a><b><sup>11 </sup></b>She herself will not prove to be for <span class="smcap">YOU </span>a widemouthed cooking pot, and <span class="smcap">YOU </span>yourselves will not prove to be flesh in the midst of her. On the border of Israel I shall judge <span class="smcap">YOU</span>, <a id="chapter11_verse12"></a><b><sup>12 </sup></b>and <span class="smcap">YOU </span>will have to know that I am Jehovah, because in my regulations <span class="smcap">YOU </span>did not walk and my judgments <span class="smcap">YOU </span>did not do, but according to the judgments of the nations that are round about <span class="smcap">YOU</span>, <span class="smcap">YOU </span>have done.’”</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter11_verse13"></a><b><sup>13 </sup></b>And it came about that as soon as I prophesied Pel·a·ti′ah the son of Be·nai′ah himself died, and I proceeded to fall upon my face and cry with a loud voice and say: “Alas, O Sovereign Lord Jehovah! Is it an extermination that you are executing with the remaining ones of Israel?”</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter11_verse14"></a><b><sup>14 </sup></b>And the word of Jehovah continued to occur to me, saying: <a id="chapter11_verse15"></a><b><sup>15 </sup></b>“Son of man, as regards your brothers, your brothers, the men concerned with your right to repurchase, and all the house of Israel, all of it, are the ones to whom the inhabitants of Jerusalem have said, ‘Get far away from Jehovah. To us it belongs; the land has been given us as a thing to possess’; <a id="chapter11_verse16"></a><b><sup>16 </sup></b>therefore say, ‘This is what the Sovereign Lord Jehovah has said: “Although I have put them far away among the nations, and although I have scattered them among the lands, yet I shall become to them a sanctuary for a little while among the lands to which they have come.”’</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter11_verse17"></a><b><sup>17 </sup></b>“Therefore say, ‘This is what the Sovereign Lord Jehovah has said: “I will also collect <span class="smcap">YOU </span>from the peoples and gather <span class="smcap">YOU </span>from the lands among which <span class="smcap">YOU </span>have been scattered, and I will give <span class="smcap">YOU </span>the soil of Israel. <a id="chapter11_verse18"></a><b><sup>18 </sup></b>And they will certainly come there and remove all its disgusting things and all its detestable things out of it. <a id="chapter11_verse19"></a><b><sup>19 </sup></b>And I will give them one heart, and a new spirit I shall put inside them; and I shall certainly remove the heart of stone from their flesh and give them a heart of flesh, <a id="chapter11_verse20"></a><b><sup>20 </sup></b>in order that they may walk in my own statutes and keep my own judicial decisions and actually carry them out; and they may really become my people and I myself may become their God.”’</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter11_verse21"></a><b><sup>21 </sup></b>“‘“But as for those whose heart is walking in their disgusting <a id="page1069"></a>things and their detestable things, upon their head I shall certainly bring their own way,” is the utterance of the Sovereign Lord Jehovah.’”</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter11_verse22"></a><b><sup>22 </sup></b>And the cherubs now lifted up their wings, and the wheels were close by them, and the glory of the God of Israel was over them, from above. <a id="chapter11_verse23"></a><b><sup>23 </sup></b>And the glory of Jehovah went ascending from over the midst of the city and began to stand over the mountain that is to the east of the city. <a id="chapter11_verse24"></a><b><sup>24 </sup></b>And a spirit itself lifted me up and finally brought me to Chal·de′a to the exiled people, in the vision by the spirit of God; and the vision that I had seen went ascending from upon me. <a id="chapter11_verse25"></a><b><sup>25 </sup></b>And I began to speak to the exiled people all the things of Jehovah that he had caused me to see.</p>
</body>
</html>
