<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="application/xhtml+xml; charset=utf-8" />
<title>Daniel 3</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/bi12.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
<p class="w_biblebookname">Daniel</p><p class="sb"><a id="chapter3"></a><a id="chapter3_verse1"></a><span class="w_ch"><b>3 </b></span>Neb·u·chad·nez′zar the king made an image of gold, the height of which was sixty cubits and the breadth of which was six cubits. He set it up in the plain of Du′ra in the jurisdictional district of Babylon. <a id="chapter3_verse2"></a><b><sup>2 </sup></b>And Neb·u·chad·nez′zar himself as king sent to assemble the satraps, the prefects and the governors, the counselors, the treasurers, the judges, the police magistrates and all the administrators of the jurisdictional districts to come to the inauguration of the image that Neb·u·chad·nez′zar the king had set up.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter3_verse3"></a><b><sup>3 </sup></b>At that time the satraps, the prefects and the governors, the counselors, the treasurers, the judges, the police magistrates and all the administrators of the jurisdictional districts were assembling themselves for the inauguration of the image that Neb·u·chad·nez′zar the king had set up, and they were standing in front of the image that Neb·u·chad·nez′zar had set up. <a id="chapter3_verse4"></a><b><sup>4 </sup></b>And the herald was crying out loudly: “To <span class="smcap">YOU </span>it is being said, O peoples, national groups and languages, <a id="chapter3_verse5"></a><b><sup>5 </sup></b>that at the time that <span class="smcap">YOU </span>hear the sound of the horn, the pipe, the zither, the triangular harp, the stringed instrument, the bagpipe and all sorts of musical instruments, <span class="smcap">YOU </span>fall down and worship the image of gold that Neb·u·chad·nez′zar the king has set up. <a id="chapter3_verse6"></a><b><sup>6 </sup></b>And whoever does not fall down and worship will at the same moment be thrown into the burning fiery furnace.” <a id="chapter3_verse7"></a><b><sup>7 </sup></b>Because of this, at the same time as all the peoples were hearing the sound of the horn, the pipe, the zither, the triangular harp, the stringed instrument and all sorts of musical instruments, all the peoples, national groups and languages were falling down and worshiping the image of gold that Neb·u·chad·nez′zar the king had set up.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter3_verse8"></a><b><sup>8 </sup></b>Because of this, at that same time certain Chal·de′ans approached and accused the Jews. <a id="chapter3_verse9"></a><b><sup>9 </sup></b>They answered, and they were saying to Neb·u·chad·nez′zar the king: “O king, live on even for times indefinite. <a id="chapter3_verse10"></a><b><sup>10 </sup></b>You yourself, O king, set forth the command that every man that hears the sound of the horn, the pipe, the zither, the triangular harp, the stringed instrument, and the bagpipe and all sorts of musical instruments, should fall down and worship the image of gold; <a id="chapter3_verse11"></a><b><sup>11 </sup></b>and that whoever would not fall down and worship should be thrown into the burning fiery furnace. <a id="chapter3_verse12"></a><b><sup>12 </sup></b>There exist certain Jews whom you appointed over the administration of the jurisdictional district of Babylon, Sha′drach, Me′shach and A·bed′ne·go; these able-bodied men have paid no regard to you, O king, they are not serving your own gods, and the image of gold that you have set up they are not worshiping.”</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter3_verse13"></a><b><sup>13 </sup></b>At that time Neb·u·chad·nez′zar, in a rage and fury, said to bring in Sha′drach, Me′shach and A·bed′ne·go. Consequently these able-bodied men were brought in before the king. <a id="chapter3_verse14"></a><b><sup>14 </sup></b>Neb·u·chad·nez′zar was answering and saying to them: “Is it really so, O Sha′drach, Me′shach and A·bed′ne·go, that <span class="smcap">YOU </span>are not serving my own gods, and the image of gold that I have set up <span class="smcap">YOU </span>are not worshiping? <a id="chapter3_verse15"></a><b><sup>15 </sup></b>Now if <span class="smcap">YOU </span>are ready so that when <span class="smcap">YOU </span>hear the sound of the horn, the pipe, the zither, the <a id="page1136"></a>triangular harp, the stringed instrument, and the bagpipe and all sorts of musical instruments, <span class="smcap">YOU </span>fall down and worship the image that I have made, all right. But if <span class="smcap">YOU </span>do not worship, at that same moment <span class="smcap">YOU </span>will be thrown into the burning fiery furnace. And who is that god that can rescue <span class="smcap">YOU </span>out of my hands?”</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter3_verse16"></a><b><sup>16 </sup></b>Sha′drach, Me′shach and A·bed′ne·go answered, and they were saying to the king: “O Neb·u·chad·nez′zar, we are under no necessity in this regard to say back a word to you. <a id="chapter3_verse17"></a><b><sup>17 </sup></b>If it is to be, our God whom we are serving is able to rescue us. Out of the burning fiery furnace and out of your hand, O king, he will rescue us. <a id="chapter3_verse18"></a><b><sup>18 </sup></b>But if not, let it become known to you, O king, that your gods are not the ones we are serving, and the image of gold that you have set up we will not worship.”</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter3_verse19"></a><b><sup>19 </sup></b>Then it was that Neb·u·chad·nez′zar himself got filled with fury, and the very expression of his face was changed toward Sha′drach, Me′shach and A·bed′ne·go. He was answering and saying to heat up the furnace seven times more than it was customary to heat it up. <a id="chapter3_verse20"></a><b><sup>20 </sup></b>And to certain able-bodied men of vital energy who were in his military force he said to bind Sha′drach, Me′shach and A·bed′ne·go, in order to throw them into the burning fiery furnace.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter3_verse21"></a><b><sup>21 </sup></b>Then it was that these able-bodied men were bound in their mantles, their garments and their caps and their other clothing and were thrown into the burning fiery furnace. <a id="chapter3_verse22"></a><b><sup>22 </sup></b>Just because the king’s word was harsh and the furnace was heated to excess, these able-bodied men that took up Sha′drach, Me′shach and A·bed′ne·go were the ones that the fiery flame killed. <a id="chapter3_verse23"></a><b><sup>23 </sup></b>But these other able-bodied men, the three of them, Sha′drach, Me′shach and A·bed′ne·go, fell down bound in the midst of the burning fiery furnace.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter3_verse24"></a><b><sup>24 </sup></b>At that time Neb·u·chad·nez′zar the king himself became frightened and he rose up in a hurry. He was answering and saying to his high royal officials: “Was it not three able-bodied men that we threw bound into the midst of the fire?” They were answering and saying to the king: “Yes, O king.” <a id="chapter3_verse25"></a><b><sup>25 </sup></b>He was answering and saying: “Look! I am beholding four able-bodied men walking about free in the midst of the fire, and there is no hurt to them, and the appearance of the fourth one is resembling a son of the gods.”</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter3_verse26"></a><b><sup>26 </sup></b>Then it was that Neb·u·chad·nez′zar approached the door of the burning fiery furnace. He was answering and saying: “Sha′drach, Me′shach and A·bed′ne·go, <span class="smcap">YOU </span>servants of the Most High God, step out and come here!” At that time Sha′drach, Me′shach and A·bed′ne·go were stepping out from the midst of the fire. <a id="chapter3_verse27"></a><b><sup>27 </sup></b>And the satraps, the prefects and the governors and the high officials of the king that were assembled were beholding these able-bodied men, that the fire had had no power over their bodies, and not a hair of their head had been singed, and even their mantles had not been changed and the smell of fire itself had not come onto them.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter3_verse28"></a><b><sup>28 </sup></b>Neb·u·chad·nez′zar was answering and saying: “Blessed be the God of Sha′drach, Me′shach and A·bed′ne·go, who sent his angel and rescued his servants that trusted in him and that changed the very word of the king and gave over their bodies, because they would not serve and would not worship any god at all except their own God. <a id="chapter3_verse29"></a><b><sup>29 </sup></b>And from me an order <a id="page1137"></a>is being put through, that any people, national group or language that says anything wrong against the God of Sha′drach, Me′shach and A·bed′ne·go should be dismembered, and its house should be turned into a public privy; forasmuch as there does not exist another god that is able to deliver like this one.”</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter3_verse30"></a><b><sup>30 </sup></b>At that time the king himself caused Sha′drach, Me′shach and A·bed′ne·go to prosper in the jurisdictional district of Babylon.</p>
</body>
</html>
