<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="application/xhtml+xml; charset=utf-8" />
<title>Hosea 8</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/bi12.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
<p class="w_biblebookname">Hosea</p><p class="sb"><a id="chapter8"></a><a id="chapter8_verse1"></a><span class="w_ch"><b>8 </b></span>“To your mouth—a horn! One comes like an eagle against the house of Jehovah, for the reason that they have overstepped my covenant, and against my law they have transgressed. <a id="chapter8_verse2"></a><b><sup>2 </sup></b>To me they keep crying, ‘O my God, we, Israel, have known you.’</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter8_verse3"></a><b><sup>3 </sup></b>“Israel has cast off good. Let one who is an enemy pursue him. <a id="chapter8_verse4"></a><b><sup>4 </sup></b>They themselves have set up kings, but not because of me. They have set up princes, but I did not know it. With their silver and their gold they have made for themselves idols, to the end that they may be cut off. <a id="chapter8_verse5"></a><b><sup>5 </sup></b>Your calf has been cast off, O Sa·mar′i·a. My anger has grown hot against them. How long will they be incapable of innocency? <a id="chapter8_verse6"></a><b><sup>6 </sup></b>For from Israel was even this. A mere craftsman made it, and it is not God; because the calf of Sa·mar′i·a will become mere splinters.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter8_verse7"></a><b><sup>7 </sup></b>“For it is wind that they keep sowing, and a storm wind is what they will reap. Nothing has standing grain. No sprout produces flour. Should any perhaps produce it, strangers themselves will swallow it down.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter8_verse8"></a><b><sup>8 </sup></b>“Israel must be swallowed down. Now they must come to be among the nations, like a vessel in which there is no delight. <a id="chapter8_verse9"></a><b><sup>9 </sup></b>For they themselves have gone up to As·syr′i·a, as a zebra isolated to itself. In E′phra·im’s case, they have hired lovers. <a id="chapter8_verse10"></a><b><sup>10 </sup></b>Also, although they keep hiring them among the nations, I shall now collect them together; and they will be a little while in severe pains because of the burden of king and princes.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter8_verse11"></a><b><sup>11 </sup></b>“For E′phra·im has multiplied altars in order to sin. He has come to have altars in order to sin. <a id="chapter8_verse12"></a><b><sup>12 </sup></b>I proceeded to write for him many things of my law; just like something strange they have been accounted. <a id="chapter8_verse13"></a><b><sup>13 </sup></b>As my gift sacrifices they kept sacrificing flesh, and they kept eating what Jehovah himself took no pleasure in. Now he will remember <a id="page1160"></a>their error and hold an accounting for their sins. To Egypt they themselves proceeded to return. <a id="chapter8_verse14"></a><b><sup>14 </sup></b>And Israel began forgetting his Maker and building temples; and Judah, for his part, multiplied fortified cities. And I shall certainly send fire into his cities and it must devour the dwelling towers of each one.”</p>
</body>
</html>
