<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="application/xhtml+xml; charset=utf-8" />
<title>Amos</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/bi12.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
<p class="st"><a id="page1168"></a><b>Amos</b></p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter1"></a><a id="chapter1_verse1"></a><span class="w_ch"><b>1 </b></span>The words of A′mos, who happened to be among the sheep raisers from Te·ko′a, which he visioned concerning Israel in the days of Uz·zi′ah the king of Judah and in the days of Jer·o·bo′am the son of Jo′ash, the king of Israel, two years before the earthquake. <a id="chapter1_verse2"></a><b><sup>2 </sup></b>And he proceeded to say:</p>
<p class="sb">“Jehovah—out of Zion he will roar, and out of Jerusalem he will give forth his voice; and the pasture grounds of the shepherds must go to mourning, and the summit of Car′mel must dry up.”</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter1_verse3"></a><b><sup>3 </sup></b>“This is what Jehovah has said, ‘“On account of three revolts of Damascus, and on account of four, I shall not turn it back, on account of their threshing Gil′e·ad even with iron threshing instruments. <a id="chapter1_verse4"></a><b><sup>4 </sup></b>And I will send a fire onto the house of Haz′a·el, and it must devour <a id="page1169"></a>the dwelling towers of Ben-ha′dad. <a id="chapter1_verse5"></a><b><sup>5 </sup></b>And I will break the bar of Damascus and cut off the inhabitant from Bik′ath-a′ven, and the holder of the scepter from Beth-e′den; and the people of Syria will have to go as exiles to Kir,” Jehovah has said.’</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter1_verse6"></a><b><sup>6 </sup></b>“This is what Jehovah has said, ‘“On account of three revolts of Ga′za, and on account of four, I shall not turn it back, on account of their taking into exile a complete body of exiles to hand over to E′dom. <a id="chapter1_verse7"></a><b><sup>7 </sup></b>And I will send a fire onto the wall of Ga′za, and it must devour her dwelling towers. <a id="chapter1_verse8"></a><b><sup>8 </sup></b>And I will cut off the inhabitant from Ash′dod, and the holder of the scepter from Ash′ke·lon; and I will turn my hand back upon Ek′ron, and the remaining ones of the Phi·lis′tines must perish,” the Sovereign Lord Jehovah has said.’</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter1_verse9"></a><b><sup>9 </sup></b>“This is what Jehovah has said, ‘On account of three revolts of Tyre, and on account of four, I shall not turn it back, on account of their handing over a complete body of exiles to E′dom, and because they did not remember the covenant of brothers. <a id="chapter1_verse10"></a><b><sup>10 </sup></b>And I will send a fire onto the wall of Tyre, and it must devour her dwelling towers.’</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter1_verse11"></a><b><sup>11 </sup></b>“This is what Jehovah has said, ‘On account of three revolts of E′dom, and on account of four, I shall not turn it back, on account of his pursuing his own brother with the sword, and because he ruined his own merciful qualities, and his anger keeps tearing away forever; and his fury—he has kept it perpetually. <a id="chapter1_verse12"></a><b><sup>12 </sup></b>And I will send a fire into Te′man, and it must devour the dwelling towers of Boz′rah.’</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter1_verse13"></a><b><sup>13 </sup></b>“This is what Jehovah has said, ‘“On account of three revolts of the sons of Am′mon, and on account of four, I shall not turn it back, on account of their slitting open the pregnant women of Gil′e·ad, for the purpose of widening out their own territory. <a id="chapter1_verse14"></a><b><sup>14 </sup></b>And I will set fire to the wall of Rab′bah, and it must devour her dwelling towers, with an alarm signal in the day of battle, with a tempest in the day of storm wind. <a id="chapter1_verse15"></a><b><sup>15 </sup></b>And their king must go into exile, he and his princes together,” Jehovah has said.’</p>
</body>
</html>
