<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="application/xhtml+xml; charset=utf-8" />
<title>Amos 3</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/bi12.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
<p class="w_biblebookname">Amos</p><p class="sb"><a id="chapter3"></a><a id="chapter3_verse1"></a><span class="w_ch"><b>3 </b></span>“Hear this word that Jehovah has spoken concerning <span class="smcap">YOU</span>, O sons of Israel, concerning the whole family that I brought up out of the land of Egypt, saying, <a id="chapter3_verse2"></a><b><sup>2 </sup></b>‘Y<span class="smcap">OU </span>people only have I known out of all the families of the ground. That is why I shall hold an accounting against <span class="smcap">YOU </span>for all <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>errors.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter3_verse3"></a><b><sup>3 </sup></b>“‘Will two walk together unless they have met by appointment? <a id="chapter3_verse4"></a><b><sup>4 </sup></b>Will a lion roar in the forest when it has no prey? Will a young maned lion give forth its voice from its hiding place if it has caught nothing at all? <a id="chapter3_verse5"></a><b><sup>5 </sup></b>Will a bird fall into a trap on the earth when there is no snare for it? Does a trap go up from the ground when it has absolutely caught nothing? <a id="chapter3_verse6"></a><b><sup>6 </sup></b>If a horn is blown in a city, do not also the people themselves tremble? If a calamity occurs in the city, is it not also Jehovah who has acted? <a id="chapter3_verse7"></a><b><sup>7 </sup></b>For the Sovereign Lord Jehovah will not do a thing unless he has revealed his confidential matter to his servants the prophets. <a id="chapter3_verse8"></a><b><sup>8 </sup></b>There is a lion that has roared! Who will not be afraid? The Sovereign Lord Jehovah himself has spoken! Who will not prophesy?’</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter3_verse9"></a><b><sup>9 </sup></b>“‘P<span class="smcap">UBLISH </span>it on the dwelling towers in Ash′dod and on the dwelling towers in the land of Egypt, and say: “Be gathered together against the mountains of Sa·mar′i·a, and see the many disorders in the midst of her and cases of defrauding inside her. <a id="chapter3_verse10"></a><b><sup>10 </sup></b>And they have not known how to do what is straightforward,” is the utterance of Jehovah, “those who are storing up violence and despoiling in their dwelling towers.”’</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter3_verse11"></a><b><sup>11 </sup></b>“Therefore this is what the Sovereign Lord Jehovah has said, ‘There is an adversary even round about the land, and he will certainly bring your <a id="page1171"></a>strength down from you, and your dwelling towers will actually be plundered.’</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter3_verse12"></a><b><sup>12 </sup></b>“This is what Jehovah has said, ‘Just as the shepherd snatches away from the mouth of the lion two shanks or a piece of an ear, so the sons of Israel will be snatched away, those sitting in Sa·mar′i·a on a splendid couch and on a Dam·a·scene′ divan.’</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter3_verse13"></a><b><sup>13 </sup></b>“‘H<span class="smcap">EAR </span>and give witness in the house of Jacob,’ is the utterance of the Sovereign Lord Jehovah, the God of the armies. <a id="chapter3_verse14"></a><b><sup>14 </sup></b>‘For, in the day of my holding an accounting for the revolts of Israel against him, I will also hold an accounting against the altars of Beth′el; and the horns of the altar will certainly be cut off and must fall to the earth. <a id="chapter3_verse15"></a><b><sup>15 </sup></b>And I will strike down the winter house in addition to the summer house.’</p>
<p class="sb">“‘And the houses of ivory will have to perish, and many houses will have to come to their finish,’ is the utterance of Jehovah.”</p>
</body>
</html>
