<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="application/xhtml+xml; charset=utf-8" />
<title>Amos 6</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/bi12.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
<p class="w_biblebookname">Amos</p><p class="sb"><a id="chapter6"></a><a id="chapter6_verse1"></a><span class="w_ch"><b>6 </b></span>“Woe to those who are at ease in Zion and to those trusting in the mountain of Sa·mar′i·a! They are the distinguished ones of the chief part of the nations, and to them the house of Israel have come. <a id="chapter6_verse2"></a><b><sup>2 </sup></b>Make <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>way over to Cal′neh, and see; and go from there to populous Ha′math, and go down to Gath of the Phi·lis′tines. Are they better than these kingdoms, or is their territory bigger than <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>territory? <a id="chapter6_verse3"></a><b><sup>3 </sup></b>Are <span class="smcap">YOU </span>putting out of <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>mind the calamitous day, and do <span class="smcap">YOU </span>bring near the dwelling of violence? <a id="chapter6_verse4"></a><b><sup>4 </sup></b>Y<span class="smcap">OU </span>men that are lying down on couches of ivory and are sprawling on their divans, and are eating the rams out of a flock and the young bulls from among fattened calves; <a id="chapter6_verse5"></a><b><sup>5 </sup></b>that are improvising according to the sound of the stringed instrument; that, like David, have devised for themselves instruments for song; <a id="chapter6_verse6"></a><b><sup>6 </sup></b>that are drinking out of bowls of wine, and that with the choicest oils do their anointing, and that have not been made sick at the catastrophe of Joseph.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter6_verse7"></a><b><sup>7 </sup></b>“Therefore now they will go into exile at the head of those going into exile, and the revelry of sprawling ones must depart.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter6_verse8"></a><b><sup>8 </sup></b>“‘The Sovereign Lord Jehovah has sworn by his own soul,’ is the utterance of Jehovah the God of armies, ‘“I am detesting the pride of Jacob, and his dwelling towers I have hated, and I will deliver up the city and what fills it. <a id="chapter6_verse9"></a><b><sup>9 </sup></b>And it must occur <a id="page1174"></a>that if ten men should be left remaining in one house, they must also die. <a id="chapter6_verse10"></a><b><sup>10 </sup></b>And his father’s brother will have to carry them forth one by one, and will be burning them one by one, in order to bring out the bones from the house. And he will have to say to whoever is in the innermost parts of the house, ‘Are there any more with you?’ And he will certainly say, ‘Nobody!’ And he will have to say, ‘Keep silence! For it is not the occasion for making any mention of the name of Jehovah.’”</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter6_verse11"></a><b><sup>11 </sup></b>“‘For here is Jehovah commanding, and he will certainly strike down the great house into rubble and the small house into debris.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter6_verse12"></a><b><sup>12 </sup></b>“‘On a crag will horses run, or will one plow there with cattle? For into a poisonous plant <span class="smcap">YOU </span>people have turned justice, and the fruitage of righteousness into wormwood, <a id="chapter6_verse13"></a><b><sup>13 </sup></b><span class="smcap">YOU </span>who are rejoicing in a thing that is not; who are saying: “Have we not in our strength taken horns to ourselves?” <a id="chapter6_verse14"></a><b><sup>14 </sup></b>Look! I am raising up against <span class="smcap">YOU</span>, O house of Israel,’ is the utterance of Jehovah the God of the armies, ‘a nation, and they must oppress <span class="smcap">YOU </span>people from the entering in of Ha′math down to the torrent valley of the Ar′a·bah.’”</p>
</body>
</html>
