<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="application/xhtml+xml; charset=utf-8" />
<title>Micah 2</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/bi12.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
<p class="w_biblebookname">Micah</p><p class="sb"><a id="chapter2"></a><a id="chapter2_verse1"></a><span class="w_ch"><b>2 </b></span>“Woe to those who are scheming what is harmful, and to those practicing what is bad, upon their beds! By the light of the morning they proceed to do it, because it is in the power of their hand. <a id="chapter2_verse2"></a><b><sup>2 </sup></b>And they have desired fields and have seized them; also houses, and have taken them; and they have defrauded an able-bodied man and his household, a man and his hereditary possession.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter2_verse3"></a><b><sup>3 </sup></b>“Therefore this is what Jehovah has said, ‘Here I am thinking up against this family a calamity from which <span class="smcap">YOU </span>people will not remove <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>necks, so that <span class="smcap">YOU </span>will not walk haughtily; because it is a time of calamity. <a id="chapter2_verse4"></a><b><sup>4 </sup></b>In that day one will raise up concerning <span class="smcap">YOU </span>people a proverbial saying and will certainly lament a lamentation, even a lamentation. One will have to say: “We have positively been despoiled! The very portion of my people he alters. How he removes it from me! To the unfaithful one he apportions out our own fields.” <a id="chapter2_verse5"></a><b><sup>5 </sup></b>Therefore you will come to have no one casting out the cord, by lot, in the congregation of Jehovah. <a id="chapter2_verse6"></a><b><sup>6 </sup></b>Do not <span class="smcap">YOU </span>people let words drop. They let words drop. They will not let words drop concerning these things. Humiliations will not move away.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter2_verse7"></a><b><sup>7 </sup></b>“‘Is it being said, O house of Jacob: “Has the spirit of Jehovah become discontented, or are these his dealings?” Do not my own words do good in the case of the one walking uprightly?</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter2_verse8"></a><b><sup>8 </sup></b>“‘And yesterday my own people proceeded to rise up as an outright enemy. From the front of a garment <span class="smcap">YOU </span>men strip off the majestic ornament, from the ones passing by confidently, like those returning from war. <a id="chapter2_verse9"></a><b><sup>9 </sup></b>The women of my people <span class="smcap">YOU </span>drive out from the house in which a woman has exquisite delight. From off her children <span class="smcap">YOU </span>take my splendor, to time indefinite. <a id="chapter2_verse10"></a><b><sup>10 </sup></b>Get up and go, because this is not a resting-place. Because of the fact that she has become unclean, there is a wrecking; and the wrecking work is painful. <a id="chapter2_verse11"></a><b><sup>11 </sup></b>If a man, walking by wind and falsehood, has told the lie: “I shall let words drop to you concerning wine and concerning intoxicating liquor,” he also will certainly become the one letting words drop for this people.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter2_verse12"></a><b><sup>12 </sup></b>“‘I shall positively gather Jacob, all of you; I shall without fail collect the remaining ones of Israel together. In unity I shall set them, like a flock in the pen, like a drove in the midst of its pasture; they will be noisy with men.’</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter2_verse13"></a><b><sup>13 </sup></b>“The one making a breakthrough will certainly come up before them: they will actually break through. And they will pass through a gate, and they will go out by it. And their king will pass through before them, with Jehovah at the head of them.”</p>
</body>
</html>
