<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="application/xhtml+xml; charset=utf-8" />
<title>Zephaniah 2</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/bi12.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
<p class="w_biblebookname">Zephaniah</p><p class="sb"><a id="chapter2"></a><a id="chapter2_verse1"></a><span class="w_ch"><b>2 </b></span>Gather yourselves together, yes, do the gathering, O nation not paling in shame. <a id="chapter2_verse2"></a><b><sup>2 </sup></b>Before the statute gives birth to anything, before the day has passed by just like chaff, before there comes upon <span class="smcap">YOU </span>people the burning anger of Jehovah, before there comes upon <span class="smcap">YOU </span>the day of Jehovah’s anger, <a id="chapter2_verse3"></a><b><sup>3 </sup></b>seek Jehovah, all <span class="smcap">YOU </span>meek ones of the earth, who have practiced His own judicial decision. Seek righteousness, seek meekness. Probably <span class="smcap">YOU </span>may be concealed in the day of Jehovah’s anger. <a id="chapter2_verse4"></a><b><sup>4 </sup></b>For, as regards Ga′za, an abandoned city is what she will become; <a id="page1195"></a>and Ash′ke·lon is to be a desolate waste. As regards Ash′dod, at high noon they will drive her out; and as regards Ek′ron, she will be uprooted.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter2_verse5"></a><b><sup>5 </sup></b>“Woe to those inhabiting the region of the sea, the nation of Cher′e·thites! The word of Jehovah is against <span class="smcap">YOU </span>people. O Ca′naan, the land of the Phi·lis′tines, I will also destroy you, so that there will be no inhabitant. <a id="chapter2_verse6"></a><b><sup>6 </sup></b>And the region of the sea must become pasture grounds, with wells for shepherds and stone pens for sheep. <a id="chapter2_verse7"></a><b><sup>7 </sup></b>And it must become a region for the remaining ones of the house of Judah. Upon them they will feed. In the houses of Ash′ke·lon, in the evening, they will lie stretched out. For Jehovah their God will turn his attention to them and certainly gather back the captive ones of them.”</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter2_verse8"></a><b><sup>8 </sup></b>“I have heard the reproach by Mo′ab and the abusive words of the sons of Am′mon, with which they have reproached my people and kept putting on great airs against their territory. <a id="chapter2_verse9"></a><b><sup>9 </sup></b>Therefore, as I am alive,” is the utterance of Jehovah of armies, the God of Israel, “Mo′ab herself will become just like Sod′om, and the sons of Am′mon like Go·mor′rah, a place possessed by nettles, and a salt pit, and a desolate waste, even to time indefinite. The remaining ones of my people will plunder them, and the remnant of my own nation will take possession of them. <a id="chapter2_verse10"></a><b><sup>10 </sup></b>This is what they will have instead of their pride, because they reproached and kept putting on great airs against the people of Jehovah of armies. <a id="chapter2_verse11"></a><b><sup>11 </sup></b>Jehovah will be fear-inspiring against them; for he will certainly emaciate all the gods of the earth, and people will bow down to him, each one from his place, all the islands of the nations.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter2_verse12"></a><b><sup>12 </sup></b>“Y<span class="smcap">OU </span>also, <span class="smcap">YOU </span>E·thi·o′pi·ans, <span class="smcap">YOU </span>yourselves will be people slain by my sword.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter2_verse13"></a><b><sup>13 </sup></b>“And he will stretch out his hand toward the north, and he will destroy As·syr′i·a. And he will make Nin′e·veh a desolate waste, a waterless region like the wilderness. <a id="chapter2_verse14"></a><b><sup>14 </sup></b>And in the midst of her, droves will certainly lie stretched out, all the wild animals of a nation. Both pelican and porcupine will spend the night right among her pillar capitals. A voice will keep singing in the window. There will be devastation at the threshold; for he will certainly lay bare the very wainscoting. <a id="chapter2_verse15"></a><b><sup>15 </sup></b>This is the exultant city that was sitting in security, that was saying in her heart, ‘I am, and there is nobody else.’ O how she has become an object of astonishment, a place for the wild animals to lie stretched out! Everyone passing along by her will whistle; he will wag his hand.”</p>
</body>
</html>
