<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="application/xhtml+xml; charset=utf-8" />
<title>Zechariah 3</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/bi12.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
<p class="w_biblebookname">Zechariah</p><p class="sb"><a id="chapter3"></a><a id="chapter3_verse1"></a><span class="w_ch"><b>3 </b></span>And he proceeded to show me Joshua the high priest standing before the angel of Jehovah, and Satan standing at his right hand in order to resist him. <a id="chapter3_verse2"></a><b><sup>2 </sup></b>Then the angel of Jehovah said to Satan: “Jehovah rebuke you, O Satan, yes, Jehovah rebuke you, he who is choosing Jerusalem! Is this one not a log snatched out of the fire?”</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter3_verse3"></a><b><sup>3 </sup></b>Now as for Joshua, he happened to be clothed in befouled garments and standing before the angel. <a id="chapter3_verse4"></a><b><sup>4 </sup></b>Then he answered and said to those standing before him: “Remove the befouled garments from upon him.” And he went on to say to him: “See, I have caused your error to pass away from upon you, and there is a clothing of you with robes of state.”</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter3_verse5"></a><b><sup>5 </sup></b>At that I said: “Let them put a clean turban upon his head.” And they proceeded to put the clean turban upon his head and to clothe him with garments; and the angel of Jehovah was standing by. <a id="chapter3_verse6"></a><b><sup>6 </sup></b>And the angel of Jehovah began to bear witness to Joshua, saying: <a id="chapter3_verse7"></a><b><sup>7 </sup></b>“This is what Jehovah of armies has said, ‘If it is in my ways that you will walk, and if it is my obligation that you will keep, then also it will be you that will judge my house and also keep my courtyards; and I shall certainly give you free access among these who are standing by.’</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter3_verse8"></a><b><sup>8 </sup></b>“‘Hear, please, O Joshua the high priest, you and your companions who are sitting before you, for they are men serving as portents; for here I am bringing in my servant Sprout! <a id="chapter3_verse9"></a><b><sup>9 </sup></b>For, look! the stone that I have put before Joshua! Upon the one stone there are seven eyes. Here I am engraving its engraving,’ is the utterance of Jehovah of armies, ‘and I will take away the error of that land in one day.’</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter3_verse10"></a><b><sup>10 </sup></b>“‘In that day,’ is the utterance of Jehovah of armies, ‘<span class="smcap">YOU </span>will call, each one to the other, while under the vine and while under the fig tree.’”</p>
</body>
</html>
