<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="application/xhtml+xml; charset=utf-8" />
<title>Zechariah 2</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/bi12.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
<p class="w_biblebookname">Zechariah</p><p class="sb"><a id="chapter2"></a><a id="chapter2_verse1"></a><span class="w_ch"><b>2 </b></span>And I proceeded to raise my eyes and see; and, look! there was a man, and in his hand a measuring rope. <a id="chapter2_verse2"></a><b><sup>2 </sup></b>So I said: “Where are you going?”</p>
<p class="sb">In turn he said to me: “To measure Jerusalem, in order to see what her breadth amounts to and what her length amounts to.”</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter2_verse3"></a><b><sup>3 </sup></b>And, look! the angel who was speaking with me was going forth, and there was another angel going forth to meet him. <a id="chapter2_verse4"></a><b><sup>4 </sup></b>Then he said to him: “Run, speak to the young man over there, saying, ‘“As open rural country Jerusalem will be inhabited, because of the multitude of men and domestic animals in the midst of her. <a id="chapter2_verse5"></a><b><sup>5 </sup></b>And I myself shall become to her,” is the utterance of Jehovah, “a wall of fire all around, and a glory is what I shall become in the midst of her.”’”</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter2_verse6"></a><b><sup>6 </sup></b>“Hey there! Hey there! Flee, then, <span class="smcap">YOU </span>people, from the land of the north,” is the utterance of Jehovah.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="page1201"></a>“For in the direction of the four winds of the heavens I have spread <span class="smcap">YOU </span>people abroad,” is the utterance of Jehovah.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter2_verse7"></a><b><sup>7 </sup></b>“Hey there, Zion! Make your escape, you who are dwelling with the daughter of Babylon. <a id="chapter2_verse8"></a><b><sup>8 </sup></b>For this is what Jehovah of armies has said, ‘Following after the glory he has sent me to the nations that were despoiling <span class="smcap">YOU </span>people; for he that is touching <span class="smcap">YOU </span>is touching my eyeball. <a id="chapter2_verse9"></a><b><sup>9 </sup></b>For here I am waving my hand against them, and they will have to become spoil to their slaves.’ And <span class="smcap">YOU </span>people will certainly know that Jehovah of armies himself has sent me.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter2_verse10"></a><b><sup>10 </sup></b>“Cry out loudly and rejoice, O daughter of Zion; for here I am coming, and I will reside in the midst of you,” is the utterance of Jehovah. <a id="chapter2_verse11"></a><b><sup>11 </sup></b>“And many nations will certainly become joined to Jehovah in that day, and they will actually become my people; and I will reside in the midst of you.” And you will have to know that Jehovah of armies himself has sent me to you. <a id="chapter2_verse12"></a><b><sup>12 </sup></b>And Jehovah will certainly take possession of Judah as his portion upon the holy ground, and he must yet choose Jerusalem. <a id="chapter2_verse13"></a><b><sup>13 </sup></b>Keep silence, all flesh, before Jehovah, for he has aroused himself from his holy dwelling.</p>
</body>
</html>
