<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="application/xhtml+xml; charset=utf-8" />
<title>Malachi</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/bi12.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
<p class="st"><a id="page1212"></a><b>Malachi</b></p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter1"></a><a id="chapter1_verse1"></a><span class="w_ch"><b>1 </b></span>A pronouncement:</p>
<p class="sb">The word of Jehovah concerning Israel by means of Mal′a·chi:</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter1_verse2"></a><b><sup>2 </sup></b>“I have loved <span class="smcap">YOU </span>people,” Jehovah has said.</p>
<p class="sb">And <span class="smcap">YOU </span>have said: “In what way have you loved us?”</p>
<p class="sb">“Was not E′sau the brother of Jacob?” is the utterance of Jehovah. “But I loved Jacob, <a id="chapter1_verse3"></a><b><sup>3 </sup></b>and E′sau I have hated; and I finally made his mountains a desolated waste and his inheritance for the jackals of the wilderness.”</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter1_verse4"></a><b><sup>4 </sup></b>“Because E′dom keeps saying, ‘We have been shattered, but we shall return and build the devastated places,’ this is what Jehovah of armies has said, ‘They, for their part, will build; but I, for my part, shall tear down. And people will certainly call them “the territory of wickedness” and “the people whom Jehovah has denounced to time indefinite.” <a id="chapter1_verse5"></a><b><sup>5 </sup></b>And <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>own eyes will see it, and <span class="smcap">YOU </span>yourselves will say: “May Jehovah be magnified over the territory of Israel.”’”</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter1_verse6"></a><b><sup>6 </sup></b>“‘A son, for his part, honors a father; and a servant, his grand master. So if I am a father, where is the honor to me? And if I am a Grand Master, where is the fear of me?’ Jehovah of armies has said to <span class="smcap">YOU</span>, O priests who are despising my name.</p>
<p class="sb">“‘And <span class="smcap">YOU </span>have said: “In what way have we despised your name?”’</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter1_verse7"></a><b><sup>7 </sup></b>“‘By presenting upon my altar polluted bread.’</p>
<p class="sb">“‘And <span class="smcap">YOU </span>have said: “In what way have we polluted you?”’</p>
<p class="sb">“‘By <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>saying: “The table of Jehovah is something to be despised.” <a id="chapter1_verse8"></a><b><sup>8 </sup></b>And when <span class="smcap">YOU </span>present a blind animal for sacrificing: “It is nothing bad.” And when <span class="smcap">YOU </span>present a lame animal or a sick one: “It is nothing bad.”’”</p>
<p class="sb">“Bring it near, please, to your governor. Will he find pleasure in you, or will he receive you kindly?” Jehovah of armies has said.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter1_verse9"></a><b><sup>9 </sup></b>“And now, please, soften the face of God, that he may show us favor. From <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>hand this has occurred. Will he receive any of <span class="smcap">YOU </span>men kindly?” Jehovah of armies has said.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter1_verse10"></a><b><sup>10 </sup></b>“Who also is there among <span class="smcap">YOU </span>that will shut the doors? And <span class="smcap">YOU </span>men will not light my altar—for nothing. No delight do I have in <span class="smcap">YOU</span>,” Jehovah of armies has said, “and in the gift offering from <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>hand I take no pleasure.”</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter1_verse11"></a><b><sup>11 </sup></b>“For from the sun’s rising even to its setting my name will be great among the nations, and in every place sacrificial smoke will be made, a presentation will be made to my name, even a clean gift; because my name will be great among the nations,” Jehovah of armies has said.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter1_verse12"></a><b><sup>12 </sup></b>“But <span class="smcap">YOU </span>men are profaning me by <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>saying, ‘The table of Jehovah is something polluted, and its fruit is something to be despised, its food.’ <a id="chapter1_verse13"></a><b><sup>13 </sup></b>And <span class="smcap">YOU </span>have said, ‘Look! What a weariness!’ and <span class="smcap">YOU </span>have caused a sniffing at it,” Jehovah of armies has said. “And <span class="smcap">YOU </span>have brought something torn away, and the lame one, and the sick one; yes, <span class="smcap">YOU </span>have brought it as a gift. Can I take pleasure in it at <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>hand?” Jehovah has said.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter1_verse14"></a><b><sup>14 </sup></b>“And cursed is the one acting cunningly when there exists in his drove a male animal, and he is making a vow and sacrificing a ruined one to Jehovah. For <a id="page1213"></a>I am a great King,” Jehovah of armies has said, “and my name will be fear-inspiring among the nations.”</p>
</body>
</html>
