<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="application/xhtml+xml; charset=utf-8" />
<title>Malachi 3</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/bi12.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
<p class="w_biblebookname">Malachi</p><p class="sb"><a id="chapter3"></a><a id="chapter3_verse1"></a><span class="w_ch"><b>3 </b></span>“Look! I am sending my messenger, and he must clear up a way before me. And suddenly there will come to His temple the true Lord, whom <span class="smcap">YOU </span>people are seeking, and the messenger of the covenant in whom <span class="smcap">YOU </span>are delighting. Look! He will certainly come,” Jehovah of armies has said.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter3_verse2"></a><b><sup>2 </sup></b>“But who will be putting up with the day of his coming, and who will be the one standing when he appears? For he will be like the fire of a refiner and like the lye of laundrymen. <a id="chapter3_verse3"></a><b><sup>3 </sup></b>And he must sit as a refiner and cleanser of silver and must cleanse the sons of Le′vi; and he must clarify them like gold and like silver, and they will certainly become to Jehovah people presenting a gift offering in righteousness. <a id="chapter3_verse4"></a><b><sup>4 </sup></b>And the gift offering of Judah and of Jerusalem will actually be gratifying to Jehovah, as in the days of long ago and as in the years of antiquity.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter3_verse5"></a><b><sup>5 </sup></b>“And I will come near to <span class="smcap">YOU </span>people for the judgment, and I will become a speedy witness against the sorcerers, and against the adulterers, and against those swearing falsely, and against those acting fraudulently with the wages of a wage worker, with the widow and with the fatherless boy, and those turning away the alien resident, while they have not feared me,” Jehovah of armies has said.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter3_verse6"></a><b><sup>6 </sup></b>“For I am Jehovah; I have not changed. And <span class="smcap">YOU </span>are sons of Jacob; <span class="smcap">YOU </span>have not come to <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>finish. <a id="chapter3_verse7"></a><b><sup>7 </sup></b>From the days of <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>forefathers <span class="smcap">YOU </span>have turned aside from my regulations and have not kept them. Return to me, and I will return to <span class="smcap">YOU</span>,” Jehovah of armies has said.</p>
<p class="sb">And <span class="smcap">YOU </span>have said: “In what way shall we return?”</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter3_verse8"></a><b><sup>8 </sup></b>“Will earthling man rob God? But <span class="smcap">YOU </span>are robbing me.”</p>
<p class="sb">And <span class="smcap">YOU </span>have said: “In what way have we robbed you?”</p>
<p class="sb">“In the tenth parts and in the contributions. <a id="chapter3_verse9"></a><b><sup>9 </sup></b>With the curse <span class="smcap">YOU </span>are cursing me, and me <span class="smcap">YOU </span>are robbing—the nation in its entirety. <a id="chapter3_verse10"></a><b><sup>10 </sup></b>Bring all the tenth parts into the storehouse, that there may come to be food in my house; and test me out, please, in this respect,” Jehovah of armies has said, “whether I shall not open to <span class="smcap">YOU </span>people the floodgates of the heavens and actually empty out upon <span class="smcap">YOU </span>a blessing until there is no more want.”</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter3_verse11"></a><b><sup>11 </sup></b>“And I will rebuke for <span class="smcap">YOU </span>the devouring one, and it will not ruin for <span class="smcap">YOU </span>the fruit of the ground, nor will the vine in the field prove fruitless for <span class="smcap">YOU</span>,” Jehovah of armies has said.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter3_verse12"></a><b><sup>12 </sup></b>“And all the nations will have to pronounce <span class="smcap">YOU </span>happy, for <span class="smcap">YOU </span>yourselves will become a land of delight,” Jehovah of armies has said.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter3_verse13"></a><b><sup>13 </sup></b>“Strong have been <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>words against me,” Jehovah has said.</p>
<p class="sb">And <span class="smcap">YOU </span>have said: “What have we spoken with one another against you?”</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="page1215"></a><a id="chapter3_verse14"></a><b><sup>14 </sup></b>“Y<span class="smcap">OU </span>have said, ‘It is of no value to serve God. And what profit is there in that we have kept the obligation to him, and that we have walked dejectedly on account of Jehovah of armies? <a id="chapter3_verse15"></a><b><sup>15 </sup></b>And at present we are pronouncing presumptuous people happy. Also, the doers of wickedness have been built up. Also, they have tested God out and keep getting away.’”</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter3_verse16"></a><b><sup>16 </sup></b>At that time those in fear of Jehovah spoke with one another, each one with his companion, and Jehovah kept paying attention and listening. And a book of remembrance began to be written up before him for those in fear of Jehovah and for those thinking upon his name.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter3_verse17"></a><b><sup>17 </sup></b>“And they will certainly become mine,” Jehovah of armies has said, “at the day when I am producing a special property. And I will show compassion upon them, just as a man shows compassion upon his son who is serving him. <a id="chapter3_verse18"></a><b><sup>18 </sup></b>And <span class="smcap">YOU </span>people will again certainly see the distinction between a righteous one and a wicked one, between one serving God and one who has not served him.”</p>
</body>
</html>
