<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="application/xhtml+xml; charset=utf-8" />
<title>Matthew</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/bi12.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
<p class="st"><a id="page1216"></a><b>According to Matthew</b></p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter1"></a><a id="chapter1_verse1"></a><span class="w_ch"><b>1 </b></span>The book of the history of Jesus Christ, son of David, son of Abraham:</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter1_verse2"></a> <b><sup>2 </sup></b>Abraham became father to Isaac;</p>
<p class="sp">Isaac became father to Jacob;</p>
<p class="sp">Jacob became father to Judah and his brothers;</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter1_verse3"></a> <b><sup>3 </sup></b>Judah became father to Pe′rez and to Ze′rah by Ta′mar;</p>
<p class="sp">Pe′rez became father to Hez′ron;</p>
<p class="sp">Hez′ron became father to Ram;</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter1_verse4"></a> <b><sup>4 </sup></b>Ram became father to Am·min′a·dab;</p>
<p class="sp">Am·min′a·dab became father to Nah′shon;</p>
<p class="sp">Nah′shon became father to Sal′mon;</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter1_verse5"></a> <b><sup>5 </sup></b>Sal′mon became father to Bo′az by Ra′hab;</p>
<p class="sp">Bo′az became father to O′bed by Ruth;</p>
<p class="sp">O′bed became father to Jes′se;</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter1_verse6"></a> <b><sup>6 </sup></b>Jes′se became father to David the king.</p>
<p class="sp"> David became father to Sol′o·mon by the wife of U·ri′ah;</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter1_verse7"></a> <b><sup>7 </sup></b>Sol′o·mon became father to Re·ho·bo′am;</p>
<p class="sp">Re·ho·bo′am became father to A·bi′jah;</p>
<p class="sp">A·bi′jah became father to A′sa;</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter1_verse8"></a> <b><sup>8 </sup></b>A′sa became father to Je·hosh′a·phat;</p>
<p class="sp">Je·hosh′a·phat became father to Je·ho′ram;</p>
<p class="sp">Je·ho′ram became father to Uz·zi′ah;</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter1_verse9"></a> <b><sup>9 </sup></b>Uz·zi′ah became father to Jo′tham;</p>
<p class="sp">Jo′tham became father to A′haz;</p>
<p class="sp">A′haz became father to Hez·e·ki′ah;</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter1_verse10"></a><b><sup>10 </sup></b>Hez·e·ki′ah became father to Ma·nas′seh;</p>
<p class="sp">Ma·nas′seh became father to A′mon;</p>
<p class="sp">A′mon became father to Jo·si′ah;</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter1_verse11"></a><b><sup>11 </sup></b>Jo·si′ah became father to Jec·o·ni′ah and to his brothers at the time of the deportation to Babylon.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter1_verse12"></a><b><sup>12 </sup></b>After the deportation to Babylon Jec·o·ni′ah became father to She·al′ti·el;</p>
<p class="sp">She·al′ti·el became father to Ze·rub′ba·bel;</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter1_verse13"></a><b><sup>13 </sup></b>Ze·rub′ba·bel became father to A·bi′ud;</p>
<p class="sp">A·bi′ud became father to E·li′a·kim;</p>
<p class="sp">E·li′a·kim became father to A′zor;</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter1_verse14"></a><b><sup>14 </sup></b>A′zor became father to Za′dok;</p>
<p class="sp">Za′dok became father to A′chim;</p>
<p class="sp">A′chim became father to E·li′ud;</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter1_verse15"></a><b><sup>15 </sup></b>E·li′ud became father to El·e·a′zar;</p>
<p class="sp">El·e·a′zar became father to Mat′than;</p>
<p class="sp">Mat′than became father to Jacob;</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter1_verse16"></a><b><sup>16 </sup></b>Jacob became father to Joseph the husband of Mary, of whom Jesus was born, who is called Christ.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter1_verse17"></a><b><sup>17 </sup></b>All the generations, then, from Abraham until David were fourteen generations, and from David until the deportation to Babylon fourteen generations, and from the deportation to Babylon until the Christ fourteen generations.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter1_verse18"></a><b><sup>18 </sup></b>But the birth of Jesus Christ was in this way. During the time his mother Mary was promised in marriage to Joseph, <a id="page1217"></a>she was found to be pregnant by holy spirit before they were united. <a id="chapter1_verse19"></a><b><sup>19 </sup></b>However, Joseph her husband, because he was righteous and did not want to make her a public spectacle, intended to divorce her secretly. <a id="chapter1_verse20"></a><b><sup>20 </sup></b>But after he had thought these things over, look! Jehovah’s angel appeared to him in a dream, saying: “Joseph, son of David, do not be afraid to take Mary your wife home, for that which has been begotten in her is by holy spirit. <a id="chapter1_verse21"></a><b><sup>21 </sup></b>She will give birth to a son, and you must call his name Jesus, for he will save his people from their sins.” <a id="chapter1_verse22"></a><b><sup>22 </sup></b>All this actually came about for that to be fulfilled which was spoken by Jehovah through his prophet, saying: <a id="chapter1_verse23"></a><b><sup>23 </sup></b>“Look! The virgin will become pregnant and will give birth to a son, and they will call his name Im·man′u·el,” which means, when translated, “With Us Is God.”</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter1_verse24"></a><b><sup>24 </sup></b>Then Joseph woke up from his sleep and did as the angel of Jehovah had directed him, and he took his wife home. <a id="chapter1_verse25"></a><b><sup>25 </sup></b>But he had no intercourse with her until she gave birth to a son; and he called his name Jesus.</p>
</body>
</html>
