<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="application/xhtml+xml; charset=utf-8" />
<title>Matthew 4</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/bi12.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
<p class="w_biblebookname">Matthew</p><p class="sb"><a id="chapter4"></a><a id="chapter4_verse1"></a><span class="w_ch"><b>4 </b></span>Then Jesus was led by the spirit up into the wilderness to be tempted by the Devil. <a id="chapter4_verse2"></a><b><sup>2 </sup></b>After he had fasted forty days and forty nights, then he felt hungry. <a id="chapter4_verse3"></a><b><sup>3 </sup></b>Also, the Tempter came and said to him: “If you are a son of God, tell these stones to become loaves of bread.” <a id="chapter4_verse4"></a><b><sup>4 </sup></b>But in reply he said: “It is written, ‘Man must live, not on bread alone, but on every utterance coming forth through Jehovah’s mouth.’”</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter4_verse5"></a><b><sup>5 </sup></b>Then the Devil took him along into the holy city, and he stationed him upon the battlement of the temple <a id="chapter4_verse6"></a><b><sup>6 </sup></b>and said to him: “If you are a son of God, hurl yourself down; for it is written, ‘He will give his angels a charge concerning you, and they will carry you on their hands, that you may at no time strike your foot against a stone.’” <a id="chapter4_verse7"></a><b><sup>7 </sup></b>Jesus said to him: “Again it is written, ‘You must not put Jehovah your God to the test.’”</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter4_verse8"></a><b><sup>8 </sup></b>Again the Devil took him along to an unusually high mountain, and showed him all the kingdoms of the world and their glory, <a id="chapter4_verse9"></a><b><sup>9 </sup></b>and he said to him: “All these things I will give you if you fall down and do an act of worship to me.” <a id="chapter4_verse10"></a><b><sup>10 </sup></b>Then Jesus said to him: “Go away, Satan! For it is written, ‘It is Jehovah your God you must worship, and it is to him alone you must render sacred service.’” <a id="chapter4_verse11"></a><b><sup>11 </sup></b>Then the Devil left him, and, look! angels came and began to minister to him.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter4_verse12"></a><b><sup>12 </sup></b>Now when he heard that John had been arrested, he withdrew into Gal′i·lee. <a id="chapter4_verse13"></a><b><sup>13 </sup></b>Further, after leaving Naz′a·reth, he came and took up residence in Ca·per′na·um beside the sea in the districts of Zeb′u·lun and Naph′ta·li, <a id="chapter4_verse14"></a><b><sup>14 </sup></b>that there might be fulfilled what was spoken through Isaiah the prophet, saying: <a id="chapter4_verse15"></a><b><sup>15 </sup></b>“O land of Zeb′u·lun and land of Naph′ta·li, along the road of the sea, on the other side of the Jordan, Gal′i·lee of the nations! <a id="chapter4_verse16"></a><b><sup>16 </sup></b>the people sitting in darkness saw a great light, and as for those sitting in a region of deathly shadow, light rose upon them.” <a id="chapter4_verse17"></a><b><sup>17 </sup></b>From that time on Jesus commenced preaching and saying: “Repent, <span class="smcap">YOU </span>people, for the kingdom of the heavens has drawn near.”</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter4_verse18"></a><b><sup>18 </sup></b>Walking alongside the sea of Gal′i·lee he saw two brothers, Simon who is called Peter and Andrew his brother, letting down a fishing net into the sea, for they were fishers. <a id="chapter4_verse19"></a><b><sup>19 </sup></b>And he said to them: “Come after me, and I will make <span class="smcap">YOU </span>fishers of men.” <a id="chapter4_verse20"></a><b><sup>20 </sup></b>At once abandoning the nets, they followed him. <a id="chapter4_verse21"></a><b><sup>21 </sup></b>Going on also from there he saw two others who were brothers, James the son of Zeb′e·dee and John his brother, in the boat with Zeb′e·dee their father, mending their nets, and he called them. <a id="chapter4_verse22"></a><b><sup>22 </sup></b>At once leaving the boat and their father, they followed him.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter4_verse23"></a><b><sup>23 </sup></b>Then he went around throughout the whole of Gal′i·lee, teaching in their synagogues and preaching the good news of the kingdom and curing every sort of disease and every sort of infirmity among the people. <a id="chapter4_verse24"></a><b><sup>24 </sup></b>And the report about him went out into all Syria; and they brought him all those faring badly, distressed with various diseases and torments, demon-possessed and epileptic and paralyzed persons, and he cured them. <a id="chapter4_verse25"></a><b><sup>25 </sup></b>Consequently <a id="page1220"></a>great crowds followed him from Gal′i·lee and De·cap′o·lis and Jerusalem and Ju·de′a and from the other side of the Jordan.</p>
</body>
</html>
