<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="application/xhtml+xml; charset=utf-8" />
<title>Mark 3</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/bi12.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
<p class="w_biblebookname">Mark</p><p class="sb"><a id="chapter3"></a><a id="chapter3_verse1"></a><span class="w_ch"><b>3 </b></span>Once again he entered into a synagogue, and a man was there with a dried-up hand. <a id="chapter3_verse2"></a><b><sup>2 </sup></b>So they were watching him closely to see whether he would cure the man on the sabbath, in order that they might <a id="page1260"></a>accuse him. <a id="chapter3_verse3"></a><b><sup>3 </sup></b>And he said to the man with the withered hand: “Get up and come to the center.” <a id="chapter3_verse4"></a><b><sup>4 </sup></b>Next he said to them: “Is it lawful on the sabbath to do a good deed or to do a bad deed, to save or to kill a soul?” But they kept silent. <a id="chapter3_verse5"></a><b><sup>5 </sup></b>And after looking around upon them with indignation, being thoroughly grieved at the insensibility of their hearts, he said to the man: “Stretch out your hand.” And he stretched it out, and his hand was restored. <a id="chapter3_verse6"></a><b><sup>6 </sup></b>At that the Pharisees went out and immediately began holding council with the party followers of Herod against him, in order to destroy him.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter3_verse7"></a><b><sup>7 </sup></b>But Jesus with his disciples withdrew to the sea; and a great multitude from Gal′i·lee and from Ju·de′a followed him. <a id="chapter3_verse8"></a><b><sup>8 </sup></b>Even from Jerusalem and from Id·u·me′a and from across the Jordan and around Tyre and Si′don, a great multitude, on hearing of how many things he was doing, came to him. <a id="chapter3_verse9"></a><b><sup>9 </sup></b>And he told his disciples to have a little boat continually at his service so that the crowd might not press upon him. <a id="chapter3_verse10"></a><b><sup>10 </sup></b>For he cured many, with the result that all those who had grievous diseases were falling upon him to touch him. <a id="chapter3_verse11"></a><b><sup>11 </sup></b>Even the unclean spirits, whenever they would behold him, would prostrate themselves before him and cry out, saying: “You are the Son of God.” <a id="chapter3_verse12"></a><b><sup>12 </sup></b>But many times he sternly charged them not to make him known.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter3_verse13"></a><b><sup>13 </sup></b>And he ascended a mountain and summoned those he wanted, and they went off to him. <a id="chapter3_verse14"></a><b><sup>14 </sup></b>And he formed a group of twelve, whom he also named “apostles,” that they might continue with him and that he might send them out to preach <a id="chapter3_verse15"></a><b><sup>15 </sup></b>and to have authority to expel the demons.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter3_verse16"></a><b><sup>16 </sup></b>And the group of twelve that he formed were Simon, to whom he also gave the surname Peter, <a id="chapter3_verse17"></a><b><sup>17 </sup></b>and James the son of Zeb′e·dee and John the brother of James (he also gave these the surname Bo·a·ner′ges, which means Sons of Thunder), <a id="chapter3_verse18"></a><b><sup>18 </sup></b>and Andrew and Philip and Bar·thol′o·mew and Matthew and Thomas and James the son of Al·phae′us and Thad·dae′us and Simon the Ca·na·nae′an <a id="chapter3_verse19"></a><b><sup>19 </sup></b>and Judas Is·car′i·ot, who later betrayed him.</p>
<p class="sb">And he went into a house. <a id="chapter3_verse20"></a><b><sup>20 </sup></b>Once more the crowd gathered, so that they were not able even to eat a meal. <a id="chapter3_verse21"></a><b><sup>21 </sup></b>But when his relatives heard about it, they went out to lay hold of him, for they were saying: “He has gone out of his mind.” <a id="chapter3_verse22"></a><b><sup>22 </sup></b>Also, the scribes that came down from Jerusalem were saying: “He has Be·el′ze·bub, and he expels the demons by means of the ruler of the demons.” <a id="chapter3_verse23"></a><b><sup>23 </sup></b>So, after calling them to him, he began to say to them with illustrations: “How can Satan expel Satan? <a id="chapter3_verse24"></a><b><sup>24 </sup></b>Why, if a kingdom becomes divided against itself, that kingdom cannot stand; <a id="chapter3_verse25"></a><b><sup>25 </sup></b>and if a house becomes divided against itself, that house will not be able to stand. <a id="chapter3_verse26"></a><b><sup>26 </sup></b>Also, if Satan has risen up against himself and become divided, he cannot stand, but is coming to an end. <a id="chapter3_verse27"></a><b><sup>27 </sup></b>In fact, no one that has got into the house of a strong man is able to plunder his movable goods unless first he binds the strong man, and then he will plunder his house. <a id="chapter3_verse28"></a><b><sup>28 </sup></b>Truly I say to <span class="smcap">YOU </span>that all things will be forgiven the sons of men, no matter what sins and blasphemies they blasphemously commit. <a id="chapter3_verse29"></a><b><sup>29 </sup></b>However, whoever blasphemes against the holy spirit has no forgiveness forever, but is guilty of everlasting sin.” <a id="page1261"></a><a id="chapter3_verse30"></a><b><sup>30 </sup></b>This, because they were saying: “He has an unclean spirit.”</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter3_verse31"></a><b><sup>31 </sup></b>Now his mother and his brothers came, and, as they were standing on the outside, they sent in to him to call him. <a id="chapter3_verse32"></a><b><sup>32 </sup></b>As it was, a crowd was sitting around him, so they said to him: “Look! Your mother and your brothers outside are seeking you.” <a id="chapter3_verse33"></a><b><sup>33 </sup></b>But in reply he said to them: “Who are my mother and my brothers?” <a id="chapter3_verse34"></a><b><sup>34 </sup></b>And having looked about upon those sitting around him in a circle, he said: “See, my mother and my brothers! <a id="chapter3_verse35"></a><b><sup>35 </sup></b>Whoever does the will of God, this one is my brother and sister and mother.”</p>
</body>
</html>
