<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="application/xhtml+xml; charset=utf-8" />
<title>Mark 15</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/bi12.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
<p class="w_biblebookname">Mark</p><p class="sb"><a id="chapter15"></a><a id="chapter15_verse1"></a><span class="w_ch"><b>15 </b></span>And immediately at dawn the chief priests with the older men and the scribes, even the whole San′he·drin, conducted a consultation, and they bound Jesus and led him off and handed him over to Pilate. <a id="chapter15_verse2"></a><b><sup>2 </sup></b>So Pilate put the question to him: “Are you the king of the Jews?” In answer to him he said: “You yourself say it.” <a id="chapter15_verse3"></a><b><sup>3 </sup></b>But the chief priests proceeded to accuse him of many things. <a id="chapter15_verse4"></a><b><sup>4 </sup></b>Now Pilate began questioning him again, saying: “Have you no reply to make? See how many charges they are bringing against you.” <a id="chapter15_verse5"></a><b><sup>5 </sup></b>But Jesus made no further answer, so that Pilate began to marvel.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter15_verse6"></a><b><sup>6 </sup></b>Well, from festival to festival he used to release to them one prisoner, whom they petitioned for. <a id="chapter15_verse7"></a><b><sup>7 </sup></b>At the time there was the so-called Bar·ab′bas in bonds with the seditionists, who in their sedition had committed murder. <a id="chapter15_verse8"></a><b><sup>8 </sup></b>So the crowd came on up and started to make petition according to what he used to do for them. <a id="chapter15_verse9"></a><b><sup>9 </sup></b>Pilate responded to them, saying: “Do <span class="smcap">YOU </span>want me to release to <span class="smcap">YOU </span>the king of the Jews?” <a id="chapter15_verse10"></a><b><sup>10 </sup></b>For he was aware that because of envy the chief priests had handed him over. <a id="chapter15_verse11"></a><b><sup>11 </sup></b>But the chief priests stirred up the crowd to have him release Bar·ab′bas to them, instead. <a id="chapter15_verse12"></a><b><sup>12 </sup></b>Again in reply Pilate was saying to them: “What, then, shall I do with him whom <span class="smcap">YOU </span>call the king of the Jews?” <a id="chapter15_verse13"></a><b><sup>13 </sup></b>Once more they cried out: “Impale him!” <a id="chapter15_verse14"></a><b><sup>14 </sup></b>But Pilate went on to say to them: “Why, what bad thing did he do?” Still they cried out all the more: “Impale him!” <a id="chapter15_verse15"></a><b><sup>15 </sup></b>At that Pilate, <a id="page1281"></a>wishing to satisfy the crowd, released Bar·ab′bas to them, and, after having Jesus whipped, he handed him over to be impaled.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter15_verse16"></a><b><sup>16 </sup></b>The soldiers now led him off into the courtyard, that is, into the governor’s palace; and they called the whole body of troops together, <a id="chapter15_verse17"></a><b><sup>17 </sup></b>and they decked him with purple and braided a crown of thorns and put it on him. <a id="chapter15_verse18"></a><b><sup>18 </sup></b>And they started greeting him: “Good day, you King of the Jews!” <a id="chapter15_verse19"></a><b><sup>19 </sup></b>Also, they would hit him on the head with a reed and spit upon him and, bending their knees, they would do obeisance to him. <a id="chapter15_verse20"></a><b><sup>20 </sup></b>Finally, when they had made fun of him, they stripped him of the purple and put his outer garments upon him. And they led him out to impale him. <a id="chapter15_verse21"></a><b><sup>21 </sup></b>Also, they impressed into service a passerby, a certain Simon of Cy·re′ne, coming from the country, the father of Alexander and Ru′fus, that he should lift up his torture stake.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter15_verse22"></a><b><sup>22 </sup></b>So they brought him to the place <i>Gol′go·tha, </i>which means, when translated, Skull Place. <a id="chapter15_verse23"></a><b><sup>23 </sup></b>Here they tried to give him wine drugged with myrrh, but he would not take it. <a id="chapter15_verse24"></a><b><sup>24 </sup></b>And they impaled him and distributed his outer garments by casting the lot over them as to who takes what. <a id="chapter15_verse25"></a><b><sup>25 </sup></b>It was now the third hour, and they impaled him. <a id="chapter15_verse26"></a><b><sup>26 </sup></b>And the inscription of the charge against him was written above, “The King of the Jews.” <a id="chapter15_verse27"></a><b><sup>27 </sup></b>Moreover, they impaled two robbers with him, one on his right and one on his left. <a id="chapter15_verse28"></a><b><sup>28 </sup></b>—— <a id="chapter15_verse29"></a><b><sup>29 </sup></b>And those going by would speak abusively to him, wagging their heads and saying: “Bah! You would-be thrower-down of the temple and builder of it in three days’ time, <a id="chapter15_verse30"></a><b><sup>30 </sup></b>save yourself by coming down off the torture stake.” <a id="chapter15_verse31"></a><b><sup>31 </sup></b>In like manner also the chief priests were making fun among themselves with the scribes and saying: “Others he saved; himself he cannot save! <a id="chapter15_verse32"></a><b><sup>32 </sup></b>Let the Christ the King of Israel now come down off the torture stake, that we may see and believe.” Even those impaled together with him were reproaching him.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter15_verse33"></a><b><sup>33 </sup></b>When it became the sixth hour a darkness fell over the whole land until the ninth hour. <a id="chapter15_verse34"></a><b><sup>34 </sup></b>And at the ninth hour Jesus called out with a loud voice: <i>“E′li, E′li, la′ma sa·bach·tha′ni?” </i>which means, when translated: “My God, my God, why have you forsaken me?” <a id="chapter15_verse35"></a><b><sup>35 </sup></b>And some of those standing near, on hearing it, began to say: “See! He is calling E·li′jah.” <a id="chapter15_verse36"></a><b><sup>36 </sup></b>But a certain one ran, soaked a sponge with sour wine, put it on a reed, and began giving him a drink, saying: “L<span class="smcap">ET </span>him be! Let us see whether E·li′jah comes to take him down.” <a id="chapter15_verse37"></a><b><sup>37 </sup></b>But Jesus let out a loud cry and expired. <a id="chapter15_verse38"></a><b><sup>38 </sup></b>And the curtain of the sanctuary was rent in two from top to bottom. <a id="chapter15_verse39"></a><b><sup>39 </sup></b>Now, when the army officer that was standing by with him in view saw he had expired under these circumstances, he said: “Certainly this man was God’s Son.”</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter15_verse40"></a><b><sup>40 </sup></b>There were also women viewing from a distance, among them Mary Mag′da·lene as well as Mary the mother of James the Less and of Jo′ses, and Sa·lo′me, <a id="chapter15_verse41"></a><b><sup>41 </sup></b>who used to accompany him and minister to him when he was in Gal′i·lee, and many other women who had come up together with him to Jerusalem.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter15_verse42"></a><b><sup>42 </sup></b>Now as it was already late in the afternoon, and since it was Preparation, that is, the day before the sabbath, <a id="chapter15_verse43"></a><b><sup>43 </sup></b>there came Joseph of Ar·i·ma·the′a, a reputable member of the Council, who also himself was waiting for the kingdom of God. He took courage to go in before Pilate <a id="page1282"></a>and asked for the body of Jesus. <a id="chapter15_verse44"></a><b><sup>44 </sup></b>But Pilate wondered whether he was already dead, and, summoning the army officer, he asked him whether he had already died. <a id="chapter15_verse45"></a><b><sup>45 </sup></b>So after making certain from the army officer, he granted the corpse to Joseph. <a id="chapter15_verse46"></a><b><sup>46 </sup></b>Accordingly he bought fine linen and took him down, wrapped him in the fine linen and laid him in a tomb which was quarried out of a rock-mass; and he rolled a stone up to the door of the memorial tomb. <a id="chapter15_verse47"></a><b><sup>47 </sup></b>But Mary Mag′da·lene and Mary the mother of Jo′ses continued looking at where he had been laid.</p>
</body>
</html>
