<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="application/xhtml+xml; charset=utf-8" />
<title>Mark 7</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/bi12.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
<p class="w_biblebookname">Mark</p><p class="sb"><a id="chapter7"></a><a id="chapter7_verse1"></a><span class="w_ch"><b>7 </b></span>Now the Pharisees and some of the scribes that had come from Jerusalem gathered about him. <a id="chapter7_verse2"></a><b><sup>2 </sup></b>And when they saw some of his disciples eat their meal with defiled hands, that is, unwashed ones— <a id="chapter7_verse3"></a><b><sup>3 </sup></b>for the Pharisees and all the Jews do not eat unless they wash their hands up to the elbow, holding fast the tradition of the men of former times, <a id="chapter7_verse4"></a><b><sup>4 </sup></b>and, when back from market, they do not eat unless they cleanse themselves by sprinkling; and there are many other traditions that they have received to hold fast, baptisms of cups and pitchers and copper vessels;— <a id="chapter7_verse5"></a><b><sup>5 </sup></b>so these Pharisees and scribes asked him: “Why is it your disciples do not conduct themselves according to the tradition of the men of former times, but they take their meal with defiled hands?” <a id="chapter7_verse6"></a><b><sup>6 </sup></b>He said to them: “Isaiah aptly prophesied about <span class="smcap">YOU </span>hypocrites, as it is written, ‘This people honor me with their lips, but their hearts are far removed from me. <a id="chapter7_verse7"></a><b><sup>7 </sup></b>It is in vain that they keep worshiping me, because they teach as doctrines commands of men.’ <a id="chapter7_verse8"></a><b><sup>8 </sup></b>Letting go the commandment of God, <span class="smcap">YOU </span>hold fast the tradition of men.”</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter7_verse9"></a><b><sup>9 </sup></b>Further, he went on to say to them: “Adroitly <span class="smcap">YOU </span>set aside the commandment of God in order to retain <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>tradition. <a id="chapter7_verse10"></a><b><sup>10 </sup></b>For example, Moses <a id="page1267"></a>said, ‘Honor your father and your mother,’ and, ‘Let him that reviles father or mother end up in death.’ <a id="chapter7_verse11"></a><b><sup>11 </sup></b>But <span class="smcap">YOU </span>men say, ‘If a man says to his father or his mother: “Whatever I have by which you may get benefit from me is corban, (that is, a gift dedicated to God,)”’— <a id="chapter7_verse12"></a><b><sup>12 </sup></b><span class="smcap">YOU </span>men no longer let him do a single thing for his father or his mother, <a id="chapter7_verse13"></a><b><sup>13 </sup></b>and thus <span class="smcap">YOU </span>make the word of God invalid by <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>tradition which <span class="smcap">YOU </span>handed down. And many things similar to this <span class="smcap">YOU </span>do.” <a id="chapter7_verse14"></a><b><sup>14 </sup></b>So, calling the crowd to him again, he proceeded to say to them: “Listen to me, all of <span class="smcap">YOU</span>, and get the meaning. <a id="chapter7_verse15"></a><b><sup>15 </sup></b>There is nothing from outside a man that passes into him that can defile him; but the things that issue forth out of a man are the things that defile a man.” <a id="chapter7_verse16"></a><b><sup>16 </sup></b>——</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter7_verse17"></a><b><sup>17 </sup></b>Now when he had entered a house away from the crowd, his disciples began to question him respecting the illustration. <a id="chapter7_verse18"></a><b><sup>18 </sup></b>So he said to them: “Are <span class="smcap">YOU </span>also without perception like them? Are <span class="smcap">YOU </span>not aware that nothing from outside that passes into a man can defile him, <a id="chapter7_verse19"></a><b><sup>19 </sup></b>since it passes, not into his heart, but into his intestines, and it passes out into the sewer?” Thus he declared all foods clean. <a id="chapter7_verse20"></a><b><sup>20 </sup></b>Further, he said: “That which issues forth out of a man is what defiles a man; <a id="chapter7_verse21"></a><b><sup>21 </sup></b>for from inside, out of the heart of men, injurious reasonings issue forth: fornications, thieveries, murders, <a id="chapter7_verse22"></a><b><sup>22 </sup></b>adulteries, covetings, acts of wickedness, deceit, loose conduct, an envious eye, blasphemy, haughtiness, unreasonableness. <a id="chapter7_verse23"></a><b><sup>23 </sup></b>All these wicked things issue forth from within and defile a man.”</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter7_verse24"></a><b><sup>24 </sup></b>From there he rose up and went into the regions of Tyre and Si′don. And he entered into a house and did not want anyone to get to know it. Yet he could not escape notice; <a id="chapter7_verse25"></a><b><sup>25 </sup></b>but immediately a woman whose little daughter had an unclean spirit heard about him and came and prostrated herself at his feet. <a id="chapter7_verse26"></a><b><sup>26 </sup></b>The woman was a Grecian, a Sy·ro·phoe·ni′cian nationally; and she kept asking him to expel the demon from her daughter. <a id="chapter7_verse27"></a><b><sup>27 </sup></b>But he began by saying to her: “First let the children be satisfied, for it is not right to take the bread of the children and throw it to the little dogs.” <a id="chapter7_verse28"></a><b><sup>28 </sup></b>In reply, however, she said to him: “Yes, sir, and yet the little dogs underneath the table eat of the crumbs of the little children.” <a id="chapter7_verse29"></a><b><sup>29 </sup></b>At that he said to her: “Because of saying this, go; the demon has gone out of your daughter.” <a id="chapter7_verse30"></a><b><sup>30 </sup></b>So she went away to her home and found the young child laid on the bed and the demon gone out.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter7_verse31"></a><b><sup>31 </sup></b>Now coming back out of the regions of Tyre he went through Si′don to the sea of Gal′i·lee up through the midst of the regions of De·cap′o·lis. <a id="chapter7_verse32"></a><b><sup>32 </sup></b>Here they brought him a man deaf and with a speech impediment, and they entreated him to lay his hand upon him. <a id="chapter7_verse33"></a><b><sup>33 </sup></b>And he took him away from the crowd privately and put his fingers into the man’s ears and, after spitting, he touched his tongue. <a id="chapter7_verse34"></a><b><sup>34 </sup></b>And with a look up into heaven he sighed deeply and said to him: <i>“Eph′pha·tha,” </i>that is, “Be opened.” <a id="chapter7_verse35"></a><b><sup>35 </sup></b>Well, his hearing powers were opened, and the impediment of his tongue was loosed, and he began speaking normally. <a id="chapter7_verse36"></a><b><sup>36 </sup></b>With that he charged them not to tell anyone; but the more he would charge them, that much more they would proclaim it. <a id="chapter7_verse37"></a><b><sup>37 </sup></b>Indeed, they were being astounded in a most extraordinary way and they said: “He has done all things well. He <a id="page1268"></a>even makes the deaf hear and the speechless speak.”</p>
</body>
</html>
