<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="application/xhtml+xml; charset=utf-8" />
<title>Luke 23</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/bi12.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
<p class="w_biblebookname">Luke</p><p class="sb"><a id="chapter23"></a><a id="chapter23_verse1"></a><span class="w_ch"><b>23 </b></span>So the multitude of them rose, one and all, and led him to Pilate. <a id="chapter23_verse2"></a><b><sup>2 </sup></b>Then they started to accuse him, saying: “This man we found subverting our nation and forbidding the paying of taxes to Caesar and saying he himself is Christ a king.” <a id="chapter23_verse3"></a><b><sup>3 </sup></b>Now Pilate asked him the question: “Are you the king of the Jews?” In answer to him he said: “You yourself are saying it.” <a id="chapter23_verse4"></a><b><sup>4 </sup></b>Then Pilate said to the chief priests and the crowds: “I find no crime in this man.” <a id="chapter23_verse5"></a><b><sup>5 </sup></b>But they began to be insistent, saying: “He stirs up the people by teaching throughout all Ju·de′a, even starting out from Gal′i·lee to here.” <a id="chapter23_verse6"></a><b><sup>6 </sup></b>On hearing that, Pilate asked whether the man was a Gal·i·le′an, <a id="chapter23_verse7"></a><b><sup>7 </sup></b>and, after ascertaining that he was from the jurisdiction of Herod, he sent him on to Herod, who was also himself in Jerusalem in these days.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter23_verse8"></a><b><sup>8 </sup></b>When Herod saw Jesus he rejoiced greatly, for over a considerable time he was wanting to see him because of having heard about him, and he was hoping to see some sign performed by him. <a id="chapter23_verse9"></a><b><sup>9 </sup></b>Now he began to question him with a good many words; but he made him no answer. <a id="chapter23_verse10"></a><b><sup>10 </sup></b>However, the chief priests and the scribes kept standing up and vehemently accusing him. <a id="chapter23_verse11"></a><b><sup>11 </sup></b>Then Herod together with his soldier guards discredited him, and he made fun of him by clothing him with a bright garment and sent him back to Pilate. <a id="chapter23_verse12"></a><b><sup>12 </sup></b>Both Herod and Pilate now became friends with each other on that very day; for before that they had continued <a id="page1324"></a>at enmity between themselves.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter23_verse13"></a><b><sup>13 </sup></b>Pilate then called the chief priests and the rulers and the people together <a id="chapter23_verse14"></a><b><sup>14 </sup></b>and said to them: “Y<span class="smcap">OU </span>brought this man to me as one inciting the people to revolt, and, look! I examined him in front of <span class="smcap">YOU </span>but found in this man no ground for the charges <span class="smcap">YOU </span>are bringing against him. <a id="chapter23_verse15"></a><b><sup>15 </sup></b>In fact, neither did Herod, for he sent him back to us; and, look! nothing deserving of death has been committed by him. <a id="chapter23_verse16"></a><b><sup>16 </sup></b>I will therefore chastise him and release him.” <a id="chapter23_verse17"></a><b><sup>17 </sup></b>—— <a id="chapter23_verse18"></a><b><sup>18 </sup></b>But with their whole multitude they cried out, saying: “Take this one away, but release Bar·ab′bas to us!” <a id="chapter23_verse19"></a><b><sup>19 </sup></b>(Which man had been thrown into prison for a certain sedition occurring in the city and for murder.) <a id="chapter23_verse20"></a><b><sup>20 </sup></b>Again Pilate called out to them, because he wanted to release Jesus. <a id="chapter23_verse21"></a><b><sup>21 </sup></b>Then they began to yell, saying: “Impale! Impale him!” <a id="chapter23_verse22"></a><b><sup>22 </sup></b>The third time he said to them: “Why, what bad thing did this man do? I found nothing deserving of death in him; I will therefore chastise and release him.” <a id="chapter23_verse23"></a><b><sup>23 </sup></b>At this they began to be urgent, with loud voices, demanding that he be impaled; and their voices began to win out. <a id="chapter23_verse24"></a><b><sup>24 </sup></b>So Pilate gave sentence for their demand to be met: <a id="chapter23_verse25"></a><b><sup>25 </sup></b>he released the man that had been thrown into prison for sedition and murder and whom they were demanding, but he surrendered Jesus to their will.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter23_verse26"></a><b><sup>26 </sup></b>Now as they led him away, they laid hold of Simon, a certain native of Cy·re′ne, coming from the country, and they placed the torture stake upon him to bear it behind Jesus. <a id="chapter23_verse27"></a><b><sup>27 </sup></b>But there was following him a great multitude of the people and of women who kept beating themselves in grief and bewailing him. <a id="chapter23_verse28"></a><b><sup>28 </sup></b>Jesus turned to the women and said: “Daughters of Jerusalem, stop weeping for me. On the contrary, weep for yourselves and for <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>children; <a id="chapter23_verse29"></a><b><sup>29 </sup></b>because, look! days are coming in which people will say, ‘Happy are the barren women, and the wombs that did not give birth and the breasts that did not nurse!’ <a id="chapter23_verse30"></a><b><sup>30 </sup></b>Then they will start to say to the mountains, ‘Fall over us!’ and to the hills, ‘Cover us over!’ <a id="chapter23_verse31"></a><b><sup>31 </sup></b>Because if they do these things when the tree is moist, what will occur when it is withered?”</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter23_verse32"></a><b><sup>32 </sup></b>But two other men, evildoers, were also being led to be executed with him. <a id="chapter23_verse33"></a><b><sup>33 </sup></b>And when they got to the place called Skull, there they impaled him and the evildoers, one on his right and one on his left. <a id="chapter23_verse34"></a><b><sup>34 </sup></b>[[But Jesus was saying: “Father, forgive them, for they do not know what they are doing.”]] Furthermore, to distribute his garments, they cast lots. <a id="chapter23_verse35"></a><b><sup>35 </sup></b>And the people stood looking on. But the rulers were sneering, saying: “Others he saved; let him save himself, if this one is the Christ of God, the Chosen One.” <a id="chapter23_verse36"></a><b><sup>36 </sup></b>Even the soldiers made fun of him, coming close and offering him sour wine <a id="chapter23_verse37"></a><b><sup>37 </sup></b>and saying: “If you are the king of the Jews, save yourself.” <a id="chapter23_verse38"></a><b><sup>38 </sup></b>There was also an inscription over him: “This is the king of the Jews.”</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter23_verse39"></a><b><sup>39 </sup></b>But one of the hung evildoers began to say abusively to him: “You are the Christ, are you not? Save yourself and us.” <a id="chapter23_verse40"></a><b><sup>40 </sup></b>In reply the other rebuked him and said: “Do you not fear God at all, now that you are in the same judgment? <a id="chapter23_verse41"></a><b><sup>41 </sup></b>And we, indeed, justly so, for we are receiving in full what we deserve for things we did; but this man did nothing out of the way.” <a id="chapter23_verse42"></a><b><sup>42 </sup></b>And he went on to say: “Jesus, <a id="page1325"></a>remember me when you get into your kingdom.” <a id="chapter23_verse43"></a><b><sup>43 </sup></b>And he said to him: “Truly I tell you today, You will be with me in Paradise.”</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter23_verse44"></a><b><sup>44 </sup></b>Well, by now it was about the sixth hour, and yet a darkness fell over all the earth until the ninth hour, <a id="chapter23_verse45"></a><b><sup>45 </sup></b>because the sunlight failed; then the curtain of the sanctuary was rent down the middle. <a id="chapter23_verse46"></a><b><sup>46 </sup></b>And Jesus called with a loud voice and said: “Father, into your hands I entrust my spirit.” When he had said this, he expired. <a id="chapter23_verse47"></a><b><sup>47 </sup></b>Because of seeing what occurred the army officer began to glorify God, saying: “Really this man was righteous.” <a id="chapter23_verse48"></a><b><sup>48 </sup></b>And all the crowds that were gathered together there for this spectacle, when they beheld the things that occurred, began to return, beating their breasts. <a id="chapter23_verse49"></a><b><sup>49 </sup></b>Moreover, all those acquainted with him were standing at a distance. Also, women, who together had followed him from Gal′i·lee, were standing beholding these things.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter23_verse50"></a><b><sup>50 </sup></b>And, look! a man named Joseph, who was a member of the Council, a good and righteous man— <a id="chapter23_verse51"></a><b><sup>51 </sup></b>this man had not voted in support of their design and action—he was from Ar·i·ma·the′a, a city of the Ju·de′ans, and was waiting for the kingdom of God; <a id="chapter23_verse52"></a><b><sup>52 </sup></b>this man went to Pilate and asked for the body of Jesus. <a id="chapter23_verse53"></a><b><sup>53 </sup></b>And he took it down and wrapped it up in fine linen, and he laid him in a tomb carved in the rock, in which no man had yet lain. <a id="chapter23_verse54"></a><b><sup>54 </sup></b>Now it was the day of Preparation, and the evening light of the sabbath was approaching. <a id="chapter23_verse55"></a><b><sup>55 </sup></b>But the women, who had come with him out of Gal′i·lee, followed along and took a look at the memorial tomb and how his body was laid; <a id="chapter23_verse56"></a><b><sup>56 </sup></b>and they went back to prepare spices and perfumed oils. But, of course, they rested on the sabbath according to the commandment.</p>
</body>
</html>
