<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="application/xhtml+xml; charset=utf-8" />
<title>Luke 13</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/bi12.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
<p class="w_biblebookname">Luke</p><p class="sb"><a id="chapter13"></a><a id="chapter13_verse1"></a><span class="w_ch"><b>13 </b></span>At that very season there were certain ones present that reported to him about the Gal·i·le′ans whose blood Pilate <a id="page1308"></a>had mixed with their sacrifices. <a id="chapter13_verse2"></a><b><sup>2 </sup></b>So in reply he said to them: “Do <span class="smcap">YOU </span>imagine that these Gal·i·le′ans were proved worse sinners than all other Gal·i·le′ans because they have suffered these things? <a id="chapter13_verse3"></a><b><sup>3 </sup></b>No, indeed, I tell <span class="smcap">YOU</span>; but, unless <span class="smcap">YOU </span>repent, <span class="smcap">YOU </span>will all likewise be destroyed. <a id="chapter13_verse4"></a><b><sup>4 </sup></b>Or those eighteen upon whom the tower in Si·lo′am fell, thereby killing them, do <span class="smcap">YOU </span>imagine that they were proved greater debtors than all other men inhabiting Jerusalem? <a id="chapter13_verse5"></a><b><sup>5 </sup></b>No, indeed, I tell <span class="smcap">YOU</span>; but, unless <span class="smcap">YOU </span>repent, <span class="smcap">YOU </span>will all be destroyed in the same way.”</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter13_verse6"></a><b><sup>6 </sup></b>Then he went on to tell this illustration: “A certain man had a fig tree planted in his vineyard, and he came looking for fruit on it, but found none. <a id="chapter13_verse7"></a><b><sup>7 </sup></b>Then he said to the vinedresser, ‘Here it is three years that I have come looking for fruit on this fig tree, but have found none. Cut it down! Why really should it keep the ground useless?’ <a id="chapter13_verse8"></a><b><sup>8 </sup></b>In reply he said to him, ‘Master, let it alone also this year, until I dig around it and put on manure; <a id="chapter13_verse9"></a><b><sup>9 </sup></b>and if then it produces fruit in the future, well and good; but if not, you shall cut it down.’”</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter13_verse10"></a><b><sup>10 </sup></b>Now he was teaching in one of the synagogues on the sabbath. <a id="chapter13_verse11"></a><b><sup>11 </sup></b>And, look! a woman with a spirit of weakness for eighteen years, and she was bent double and was unable to raise herself up at all. <a id="chapter13_verse12"></a><b><sup>12 </sup></b>When he saw her, Jesus addressed her and said to her: “Woman, you are released from your weakness.” <a id="chapter13_verse13"></a><b><sup>13 </sup></b>And he laid his hands on her; and instantly she straightened up, and began to glorify God. <a id="chapter13_verse14"></a><b><sup>14 </sup></b>But in response the presiding officer of the synagogue, indignant because Jesus did the cure on the sabbath, began to say to the crowd: “There are six days on which work ought to be done; on them, therefore, come and be cured, and not on the sabbath day.” <a id="chapter13_verse15"></a><b><sup>15 </sup></b>However, the Lord answered him and said: “Hypocrites, does not each one of <span class="smcap">YOU </span>on the sabbath untie his bull or his ass from the stall and lead it away to give it drink? <a id="chapter13_verse16"></a><b><sup>16 </sup></b>Was it not due, then, for this woman who is a daughter of Abraham, and whom Satan held bound, look! eighteen years, to be loosed from this bond on the sabbath day?” <a id="chapter13_verse17"></a><b><sup>17 </sup></b>Well, when he said these things, all his opposers began to feel shame; but all the crowd began to rejoice at all the glorious things done by him.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter13_verse18"></a><b><sup>18 </sup></b>Therefore he went on to say: “What is the kingdom of God like, and with what shall I compare it? <a id="chapter13_verse19"></a><b><sup>19 </sup></b>It is like a mustard grain that a man took and put in his garden, and it grew and became a tree, and the birds of heaven took up lodging in its branches.”</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter13_verse20"></a><b><sup>20 </sup></b>And again he said: “With what shall I compare the kingdom of God? <a id="chapter13_verse21"></a><b><sup>21 </sup></b>It is like leaven, which a woman took and hid in three large measures of flour until the whole mass was fermented.”</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter13_verse22"></a><b><sup>22 </sup></b>And he journeyed through from city to city and from village to village, teaching and continuing on his journey to Jerusalem. <a id="chapter13_verse23"></a><b><sup>23 </sup></b>Now a certain man said to him: “Lord, are those who are being saved few?” He said to them: <a id="chapter13_verse24"></a><b><sup>24 </sup></b>“Exert yourselves vigorously to get in through the narrow door, because many, I tell <span class="smcap">YOU</span>, will seek to get in but will not be able, <a id="chapter13_verse25"></a><b><sup>25 </sup></b>when once the householder has got up and locked the door, and <span class="smcap">YOU </span>start to stand outside and to knock at the door, saying, ‘Sir, open to us.’ But in answer he will say to <span class="smcap">YOU</span>, ‘I do not know where <span class="smcap">YOU </span>are from.’ <a id="chapter13_verse26"></a><b><sup>26 </sup></b>Then <span class="smcap">YOU </span>will start saying, ‘We ate and drank in front of you, and you taught in our <a id="page1309"></a>broad ways.’ <a id="chapter13_verse27"></a><b><sup>27 </sup></b>But he will speak and say to <span class="smcap">YOU</span>, ‘I do not know where <span class="smcap">YOU </span>are from. Get away from me, all <span class="smcap">YOU </span>workers of unrighteousness!’ <a id="chapter13_verse28"></a><b><sup>28 </sup></b>There is where <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>weeping and the gnashing of <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>teeth will be, when <span class="smcap">YOU </span>see Abraham and Isaac and Jacob and all the prophets in the kingdom of God, but yourselves thrown outside. <a id="chapter13_verse29"></a><b><sup>29 </sup></b>Furthermore, people will come from eastern parts and western, and from north and south, and will recline at the table in the kingdom of God. <a id="chapter13_verse30"></a><b><sup>30 </sup></b>And, look! there are those last who will be first, and there are those first who will be last.”</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter13_verse31"></a><b><sup>31 </sup></b>In that very hour certain Pharisees came up, saying to him: “Get out and be on your way from here, because Herod wants to kill you.” <a id="chapter13_verse32"></a><b><sup>32 </sup></b>And he said to them: “Go and tell that fox, ‘Look! I am casting out demons and accomplishing healing today and tomorrow, and the third day I shall be finished.’ <a id="chapter13_verse33"></a><b><sup>33 </sup></b>Nevertheless, I must go on my way today and tomorrow and the following day, because it is not admissible for a prophet to be destroyed outside of Jerusalem. <a id="chapter13_verse34"></a><b><sup>34 </sup></b>Jerusalem, Jerusalem, the killer of the prophets and stoner of those sent forth to her—how often I wanted to gather your children together in the manner that a hen gathers her brood of chicks under her wings, but <span class="smcap">YOU </span>people did not want it! <a id="chapter13_verse35"></a><b><sup>35 </sup></b>Look! Y<span class="smcap">OUR </span>house is abandoned to <span class="smcap">YOU</span>. I tell <span class="smcap">YOU</span>, Y<span class="smcap">OU </span>will by no means see me until <span class="smcap">YOU </span>say, ‘Blessed is he that comes in Jehovah’s name!’”</p>
</body>
</html>
