<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="application/xhtml+xml; charset=utf-8" />
<title>Acts 2</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/bi12.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
<p class="w_biblebookname">Acts</p><p class="sb"><a id="page1362"></a><a id="chapter2"></a><a id="chapter2_verse1"></a><span class="w_ch"><b>2 </b></span>Now while the day of the festival of Pentecost was in progress they were all together at the same place, <a id="chapter2_verse2"></a><b><sup>2 </sup></b>and suddenly there occurred from heaven a noise just like that of a rushing stiff breeze, and it filled the whole house in which they were sitting. <a id="chapter2_verse3"></a><b><sup>3 </sup></b>And tongues as if of fire became visible to them and were distributed about, and one sat upon each one of them, <a id="chapter2_verse4"></a><b><sup>4 </sup></b>and they all became filled with holy spirit and started to speak with different tongues, just as the spirit was granting them to make utterance.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter2_verse5"></a><b><sup>5 </sup></b>As it was, there were dwelling in Jerusalem Jews, reverent men, from every nation of those under heaven. <a id="chapter2_verse6"></a><b><sup>6 </sup></b>So, when this sound occurred, the multitude came together and were bewildered, because each one heard them speaking in his own language. <a id="chapter2_verse7"></a><b><sup>7 </sup></b>Indeed, they were astonished and began to wonder and say: “See here, all these who are speaking are Gal·i·le′ans, are they not? <a id="chapter2_verse8"></a><b><sup>8 </sup></b>And yet how is it we are hearing, each one of us, his own language in which we were born? <a id="chapter2_verse9"></a><b><sup>9 </sup></b>Par′thi·ans and Medes and E′lam·ites, and the inhabitants of Mes·o·po·ta′mi·a, and Ju·de′a and Cap·pa·do′ci·a, Pon′tus and the district of Asia, <a id="chapter2_verse10"></a><b><sup>10 </sup></b>and Phryg′i·a and Pam·phyl′i·a, Egypt and the parts of Lib′y·a, which is toward Cy·re′ne, and sojourners from Rome, both Jews and proselytes, <a id="chapter2_verse11"></a><b><sup>11 </sup></b>Cre′tans and Arabians, we hear them speaking in our tongues about the magnificent things of God.” <a id="chapter2_verse12"></a><b><sup>12 </sup></b>Yes, they were all astonished and were in perplexity, saying one to another: “What does this thing purport to be?” <a id="chapter2_verse13"></a><b><sup>13 </sup></b>However, different ones mocked at them and began to say: “They are full of sweet wine.”</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter2_verse14"></a><b><sup>14 </sup></b>But Peter stood up with the eleven and raised his voice and made this utterance to them: “Men of Ju·de′a and all <span class="smcap">YOU </span>inhabitants of Jerusalem, let this be known to <span class="smcap">YOU </span>and give ear to my sayings. <a id="chapter2_verse15"></a><b><sup>15 </sup></b>These people are, in fact, not drunk, as <span class="smcap">YOU </span>suppose, for it is the third hour of the day. <a id="chapter2_verse16"></a><b><sup>16 </sup></b>On the contrary, this is what was said through the prophet Joel, <a id="chapter2_verse17"></a><b><sup>17 </sup></b>‘“And in the last days,” God says, “I shall pour out some of my spirit upon every sort of flesh, and <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>sons and <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>daughters will prophesy and <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>young men will see visions and <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>old men will dream dreams; <a id="chapter2_verse18"></a><b><sup>18 </sup></b>and even upon my men slaves and upon my women slaves I will pour out some of my spirit in those days, and they will prophesy. <a id="chapter2_verse19"></a><b><sup>19 </sup></b>And I will give portents in heaven above and signs on earth below, blood and fire and smoke mist; <a id="chapter2_verse20"></a><b><sup>20 </sup></b>the sun will be turned into darkness and the moon into blood before the great and illustrious day of Jehovah arrives. <a id="chapter2_verse21"></a><b><sup>21 </sup></b>And everyone who calls on the name of Jehovah will be saved.”’</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter2_verse22"></a><b><sup>22 </sup></b>“Men of Israel, hear these words: Jesus the Naz·a·rene′, a man publicly shown by God to <span class="smcap">YOU </span>through powerful works and portents and signs that God did through him in <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>midst, just as <span class="smcap">YOU </span>yourselves know, <a id="chapter2_verse23"></a><b><sup>23 </sup></b>this man, as one delivered up by the determined counsel and foreknowledge of God, <span class="smcap">YOU </span>fastened to a stake by the hand of lawless men and did away with. <a id="chapter2_verse24"></a><b><sup>24 </sup></b>But God resurrected him by loosing the pangs of death, because it was not possible for him to continue to be held fast by it. <a id="chapter2_verse25"></a><b><sup>25 </sup></b>For David says respecting him, ‘I had Jehovah constantly before my eyes; because he is at my right hand that I may never be shaken. <a id="chapter2_verse26"></a><b><sup>26 </sup></b>On this account my heart became cheerful and my tongue rejoiced greatly. Moreover, even my flesh will <a id="page1363"></a>reside in hope; <a id="chapter2_verse27"></a><b><sup>27 </sup></b>because you will not leave my soul in Ha′des, neither will you allow your loyal one to see corruption. <a id="chapter2_verse28"></a><b><sup>28 </sup></b>You have made life’s ways known to me, you will fill me with good cheer with your face.’</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter2_verse29"></a><b><sup>29 </sup></b>“Men, brothers, it is allowable to speak with freeness of speech to <span class="smcap">YOU </span>concerning the family head David, that he both deceased and was buried and his tomb is among us to this day. <a id="chapter2_verse30"></a><b><sup>30 </sup></b>Therefore, because he was a prophet and knew that God had sworn to him with an oath that he would seat one from the fruitage of his loins upon his throne, <a id="chapter2_verse31"></a><b><sup>31 </sup></b>he saw beforehand and spoke concerning the resurrection of the Christ, that neither was he forsaken in Ha′des nor did his flesh see corruption. <a id="chapter2_verse32"></a><b><sup>32 </sup></b>This Jesus God resurrected, of which fact we are all witnesses. <a id="chapter2_verse33"></a><b><sup>33 </sup></b>Therefore because he was exalted to the right hand of God and received the promised holy spirit from the Father, he has poured out this which <span class="smcap">YOU </span>see and hear. <a id="chapter2_verse34"></a><b><sup>34 </sup></b>Actually David did not ascend to the heavens, but he himself says, ‘Jehovah said to my Lord: “Sit at my right hand, <a id="chapter2_verse35"></a><b><sup>35 </sup></b>until I place your enemies as a stool for your feet.”’ <a id="chapter2_verse36"></a><b><sup>36 </sup></b>Therefore let all the house of Israel know for a certainty that God made him both Lord and Christ, this Jesus whom <span class="smcap">YOU </span>impaled.”</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter2_verse37"></a><b><sup>37 </sup></b>Now when they heard this they were stabbed to the heart, and they said to Peter and the rest of the apostles: “Men, brothers, what shall we do?” <a id="chapter2_verse38"></a><b><sup>38 </sup></b>Peter said to them: “Repent, and let each one of <span class="smcap">YOU </span>be baptized in the name of Jesus Christ for forgiveness of <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>sins, and <span class="smcap">YOU </span>will receive the free gift of the holy spirit. <a id="chapter2_verse39"></a><b><sup>39 </sup></b>For the promise is to <span class="smcap">YOU </span>and to <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>children and to all those afar off, just as many as Jehovah our God may call to him.” <a id="chapter2_verse40"></a><b><sup>40 </sup></b>And with many other words he bore thorough witness and kept exhorting them, saying: “Get saved from this crooked generation.” <a id="chapter2_verse41"></a><b><sup>41 </sup></b>Therefore those who embraced his word heartily were baptized, and on that day about three thousand souls were added. <a id="chapter2_verse42"></a><b><sup>42 </sup></b>And they continued devoting themselves to the teaching of the apostles and to sharing with one another, to taking of meals and to prayers.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter2_verse43"></a><b><sup>43 </sup></b>Indeed, fear began to fall upon every soul, and many portents and signs began to occur through the apostles. <a id="chapter2_verse44"></a><b><sup>44 </sup></b>All those who became believers were together in having all things in common, <a id="chapter2_verse45"></a><b><sup>45 </sup></b>and they went selling their possessions and properties and distributing the proceeds to all, just as anyone would have the need. <a id="chapter2_verse46"></a><b><sup>46 </sup></b>And day after day they were in constant attendance at the temple with one accord, and they took their meals in private homes and partook of food with great rejoicing and sincerity of heart, <a id="chapter2_verse47"></a><b><sup>47 </sup></b>praising God and finding favor with all the people. At the same time Jehovah continued to join to them daily those being saved.</p>
</body>
</html>
