<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="application/xhtml+xml; charset=utf-8" />
<title>Acts 18</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/bi12.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
<p class="w_biblebookname">Acts</p><p class="sb"><a id="chapter18"></a><a id="chapter18_verse1"></a><span class="w_ch"><b>18 </b></span>After these things he departed from Athens and came to Corinth. <a id="chapter18_verse2"></a><b><sup>2 </sup></b>And he found a certain Jew named Aq′ui·la, a native of Pon′tus who had recently come from Italy, and Pris·cil′la his wife, because of the fact that Claudius had ordered all the Jews to depart from Rome. So he went to them <a id="chapter18_verse3"></a><b><sup>3 </sup></b>and on account of being of the same trade he stayed at their home, and they worked, for they were tentmakers by trade. <a id="chapter18_verse4"></a><b><sup>4 </sup></b>However, he would give a talk in the synagogue every sabbath and would persuade Jews and Greeks.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="page1388"></a><a id="chapter18_verse5"></a><b><sup>5 </sup></b>When, now, both Silas and Timothy came down from Mac·e·do′ni·a, Paul began to be intensely occupied with the word, witnessing to the Jews to prove that Jesus is the Christ. <a id="chapter18_verse6"></a><b><sup>6 </sup></b>But after they kept on opposing and speaking abusively, he shook out his garments and said to them: “Let <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>blood be upon <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>own heads. I am clean. From now on I will go to people of the nations.” <a id="chapter18_verse7"></a><b><sup>7 </sup></b>Accordingly he transferred from there and went into the house of a man named Titius Justus, a worshiper of God, whose house was adjoining the synagogue. <a id="chapter18_verse8"></a><b><sup>8 </sup></b>But Cris′pus the presiding officer of the synagogue became a believer in the Lord, and so did all his household. And many of the Corinthians that heard began to believe and be baptized. <a id="chapter18_verse9"></a><b><sup>9 </sup></b>Moreover, by night the Lord said to Paul through a vision: “Have no fear, but keep on speaking and do not keep silent, <a id="chapter18_verse10"></a><b><sup>10 </sup></b>because I am with you and no man will assault you so as to do you injury; for I have many people in this city.” <a id="chapter18_verse11"></a><b><sup>11 </sup></b>So he stayed set there a year and six months, teaching among them the word of God.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter18_verse12"></a><b><sup>12 </sup></b>Now while Gal′li·o was proconsul of A·cha′ia, the Jews rose up with one accord against Paul and led him to the judgment seat, <a id="chapter18_verse13"></a><b><sup>13 </sup></b>saying: “Contrary to the law this person leads men to another persuasion in worshiping God.” <a id="chapter18_verse14"></a><b><sup>14 </sup></b>But as Paul was going to open his mouth, Gal′li·o said to the Jews: “If it were, indeed, some wrong or a wicked act of villainy, O Jews, I would with reason put up patiently with <span class="smcap">YOU</span>. <a id="chapter18_verse15"></a><b><sup>15 </sup></b>But if it is controversies over speech and names and the law among <span class="smcap">YOU</span>, <span class="smcap">YOU </span>yourselves must see to it. I do not wish to be a judge of these things.” <a id="chapter18_verse16"></a><b><sup>16 </sup></b>With that he drove them away from the judgment seat. <a id="chapter18_verse17"></a><b><sup>17 </sup></b>So they all laid hold of Sos′the·nes the presiding officer of the synagogue and went to beating him in front of the judgment seat. But Gal′li·o would not concern himself at all with these things.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter18_verse18"></a><b><sup>18 </sup></b>However, after staying quite some days longer, Paul said good-bye to the brothers and proceeded to sail away for Syria, and with him Pris·cil′la and Aq′ui·la, as he had the hair of his head clipped short in Cen′chre·ae, for he had a vow. <a id="chapter18_verse19"></a><b><sup>19 </sup></b>So they arrived at Eph′e·sus, and he left them there; but he himself entered into the synagogue and reasoned with the Jews. <a id="chapter18_verse20"></a><b><sup>20 </sup></b>Although they kept requesting him to remain for a longer time, he would not consent <a id="chapter18_verse21"></a><b><sup>21 </sup></b>but said good-bye and told them: “I will return to <span class="smcap">YOU </span>again, if Jehovah is willing.” And he put out to sea from Eph′e·sus <a id="chapter18_verse22"></a><b><sup>22 </sup></b>and came down to Caes·a·re′a. And he went up and greeted the congregation, and went down to Antioch.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter18_verse23"></a><b><sup>23 </sup></b>And when he had passed some time there he departed and went from place to place through the country of Ga·la′ti·a and Phryg′i·a, strengthening all the disciples.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter18_verse24"></a><b><sup>24 </sup></b>Now a certain Jew named A·pol′los, a native of Alexandria, an eloquent man, arrived in Eph′e·sus; and he was well versed in the Scriptures. <a id="chapter18_verse25"></a><b><sup>25 </sup></b>This man had been orally instructed in the way of Jehovah and, as he was aglow with the spirit, he went speaking and teaching with correctness the things about Jesus, but being acquainted with only the baptism of John. <a id="chapter18_verse26"></a><b><sup>26 </sup></b>And this man started to speak boldly in the synagogue. When Pris·cil′la and Aq′ui·la heard him, they took him into their company and expounded the way of God more correctly to him. <a id="chapter18_verse27"></a><b><sup>27 </sup></b>Further, because he was desiring to go across into A·cha′ia, the brothers wrote the disciples, exhorting <a id="page1389"></a>them to receive him kindly. So when he got there, he greatly helped those who had believed on account of God’s undeserved kindness; <a id="chapter18_verse28"></a><b><sup>28 </sup></b>for with intensity he thoroughly proved the Jews to be wrong publicly, while he demonstrated by the Scriptures that Jesus was the Christ.</p>
</body>
</html>
