<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="application/xhtml+xml; charset=utf-8" />
<title>Acts 24</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/bi12.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
<p class="w_biblebookname">Acts</p><p class="sb"><a id="chapter24"></a><a id="chapter24_verse1"></a><span class="w_ch"><b>24 </b></span>Five days later the high priest An·a·ni′as came down with some older men and a public speaker, a certain Ter·tul′lus, and they gave information to the governor against Paul. <a id="chapter24_verse2"></a><b><sup>2 </sup></b>When he was called, Ter·tul′lus started accusing him, saying:</p>
<p class="sb">“Seeing that we enjoy great peace through you and that reforms are taking place in this nation through your forethought, <a id="chapter24_verse3"></a><b><sup>3 </sup></b>at all times and also in all places we receive it, Your Excellency Felix, with the greatest thankfulness. <a id="chapter24_verse4"></a><b><sup>4 </sup></b>But that I may not hinder you any further, I beseech you to hear us briefly in your kindliness. <a id="chapter24_verse5"></a><b><sup>5 </sup></b>For we have found this man a pestilent fellow and stirring up seditions among all the Jews throughout the inhabited earth and a spearhead of the sect of the Naz·a·renes′, <a id="chapter24_verse6"></a><b><sup>6 </sup></b>one who also tried to profane the temple and whom we seized. <a id="chapter24_verse7"></a><b><sup>7 </sup></b>—— <a id="chapter24_verse8"></a><b><sup>8 </sup></b>From him you yourself can by examination find out about all these things of which we are accusing him.”</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter24_verse9"></a><b><sup>9 </sup></b>With that the Jews also joined in the attack, asserting that these things were so. <a id="chapter24_verse10"></a><b><sup>10 </sup></b>And Paul, when the governor nodded to him to speak, answered:</p>
<p class="sb">“Knowing well that this nation has had you as judge for many years, I readily speak in my defense the things about myself, <a id="chapter24_verse11"></a><b><sup>11 </sup></b>as you are in a position to find out that for me it has not been more than twelve days since I went up to worship in Jerusalem; <a id="chapter24_verse12"></a><b><sup>12 </sup></b>and they found me neither in the temple arguing with anyone nor causing a mob to rush together, either in the synagogues or throughout the city. <a id="chapter24_verse13"></a><b><sup>13 </sup></b>Nor can they prove to you the things of which they are accusing me right now. <a id="chapter24_verse14"></a><b><sup>14 </sup></b>But I do admit this to you, that, according to the way that they call a ‘sect,’ in this manner I am rendering sacred service to the God of my forefathers, as I believe all the things set forth in the Law and written in the Prophets; <a id="chapter24_verse15"></a><b><sup>15 </sup></b>and I have hope toward God, which hope these men themselves also entertain, that there is going to be a resurrection of both the righteous and the unrighteous. <a id="chapter24_verse16"></a><b><sup>16 </sup></b>In this respect, indeed, I am exercising myself continually to have a consciousness of committing no offense against God and men. <a id="chapter24_verse17"></a><b><sup>17 </sup></b>So after quite a number of years I arrived to bring gifts of mercy to my nation, and offerings. <a id="chapter24_verse18"></a><b><sup>18 </sup></b>While I was at these matters they found me ceremonially cleansed in the temple, <a id="page1398"></a>but not with a crowd or with a tumult. But there were certain Jews from the district of Asia, <a id="chapter24_verse19"></a><b><sup>19 </sup></b>who ought to be present before you and to accuse me if they might have anything against me. <a id="chapter24_verse20"></a><b><sup>20 </sup></b>Or, let the men here say for themselves what wrong they found as I stood before the San′he·drin, <a id="chapter24_verse21"></a><b><sup>21 </sup></b>except with respect to this one utterance which I cried out while standing among them, ‘Over the resurrection of the dead I am today being judged before <span class="smcap">YOU</span>!’”</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter24_verse22"></a><b><sup>22 </sup></b>However, Felix, knowing quite accurately the matters concerning this Way, began to put the men off and said: “Whenever Lys′i·as the military commander comes down, I shall decide upon these matters involving <span class="smcap">YOU</span>.” <a id="chapter24_verse23"></a><b><sup>23 </sup></b>And he ordered the army officer that the man be kept and have some relaxation of custody, and that he forbid no one of his people to wait upon him.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter24_verse24"></a><b><sup>24 </sup></b>Some days later Felix arrived with Dru·sil′la his wife, who was a Jewess, and he sent for Paul and listened to him on the belief in Christ Jesus. <a id="chapter24_verse25"></a><b><sup>25 </sup></b>But as he talked about righteousness and self-control and the judgment to come, Felix became frightened and answered: “For the present go your way, but when I get an opportune time I shall send for you again.” <a id="chapter24_verse26"></a><b><sup>26 </sup></b>At the same time, though, he was hoping for money to be given him by Paul. On that account he sent for him even more frequently and would converse with him. <a id="chapter24_verse27"></a><b><sup>27 </sup></b>But, when two years had elapsed, Felix was succeeded by Porcius Festus; and because Felix desired to gain favor with the Jews, he left Paul bound.</p>
</body>
</html>
