<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="application/xhtml+xml; charset=utf-8" />
<title>1 Corinthians 13</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/bi12.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
<p class="w_biblebookname">1 Corinthians</p><p class="sb"><a id="chapter13"></a><a id="chapter13_verse1"></a><span class="w_ch"><b>13 </b></span>If I speak in the tongues of men and of angels but do not have love, I have become a sounding piece of brass or a clashing cymbal. <a id="chapter13_verse2"></a><b><sup>2 </sup></b>And if I have the gift of prophesying and am acquainted with all the sacred secrets and all knowledge, and if I have all the faith so as to transplant mountains, but do not have love, I am nothing. <a id="chapter13_verse3"></a><b><sup>3 </sup></b>And if I give all my belongings to feed others, and if I hand over my body, that I may boast, but do not have love, I am not profited at all.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter13_verse4"></a><b><sup>4 </sup></b>Love is long-suffering and kind. Love is not jealous, it does not brag, does not get puffed up, <a id="chapter13_verse5"></a><b><sup>5 </sup></b>does not behave indecently, does not look for its own interests, does not become provoked. It does not keep account of the injury. <a id="chapter13_verse6"></a><b><sup>6 </sup></b>It does not rejoice over unrighteousness, but rejoices with the truth. <a id="chapter13_verse7"></a><b><sup>7 </sup></b>It bears all things, believes all things, hopes all things, endures all things.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter13_verse8"></a><b><sup>8 </sup></b>Love never fails. But whether there are gifts of prophesying, they will be done away with; whether there are tongues, they will cease; whether there is knowledge, it will be done away with. <a id="chapter13_verse9"></a><b><sup>9 </sup></b>For we have partial knowledge and we prophesy partially; <a id="chapter13_verse10"></a><b><sup>10 </sup></b>but when that which is complete arrives, that which is partial will be done away with. <a id="chapter13_verse11"></a><b><sup>11 </sup></b>When I was a babe, I used to speak as a babe, to think as a babe, to reason as a babe; but now that I have become a man, I have done away with the traits of a babe. <a id="chapter13_verse12"></a><b><sup>12 </sup></b>For at present we see in hazy outline by means of a metal mirror, but then it will be face to face. At present I know partially, but then I shall know accurately even as I am accurately known. <a id="chapter13_verse13"></a><b><sup>13 </sup></b>Now, however, there remain faith, hope, love, these three; but the greatest of these is love.</p>
</body>
</html>
