<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="application/xhtml+xml; charset=utf-8" />
<title>1 Corinthians 5</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/bi12.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
<p class="w_biblebookname">1 Corinthians</p><p class="sb"><a id="chapter5"></a><a id="chapter5_verse1"></a><span class="w_ch"><b>5 </b></span>Actually fornication is reported among <span class="smcap">YOU</span>, and such fornication as is not even among the nations, that a wife a certain man has of his father. <a id="chapter5_verse2"></a><b><sup>2 </sup></b>And are <span class="smcap">YOU </span>puffed up, and did <span class="smcap">YOU </span>not rather mourn, in order that the man that committed this deed should be taken away from <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>midst? <a id="chapter5_verse3"></a><b><sup>3 </sup></b>I for one, although absent in body but present in spirit, have certainly judged already, as if I were present, the man who has worked in such a way as this, <a id="chapter5_verse4"></a><b><sup>4 </sup></b>that in the name of our Lord Jesus, when <span class="smcap">YOU </span>are gathered together, also my spirit with the power of our Lord Jesus, <a id="chapter5_verse5"></a><b><sup>5 </sup></b><span class="smcap">YOU </span>hand such a man over to Satan for the destruction <a id="page1427"></a>of the flesh, in order that the spirit may be saved in the day of the Lord.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter5_verse6"></a><b><sup>6 </sup></b>Y<span class="smcap">OUR </span>cause for boasting is not fine. Do <span class="smcap">YOU </span>not know that a little leaven ferments the whole lump? <a id="chapter5_verse7"></a><b><sup>7 </sup></b>Clear away the old leaven, that <span class="smcap">YOU </span>may be a new lump, according as <span class="smcap">YOU </span>are free from ferment. For, indeed, Christ our passover has been sacrificed. <a id="chapter5_verse8"></a><b><sup>8 </sup></b>Consequently let us keep the festival, not with old leaven, neither with leaven of badness and wickedness, but with unfermented cakes of sincerity and truth.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter5_verse9"></a><b><sup>9 </sup></b>In my letter I wrote <span class="smcap">YOU </span>to quit mixing in company with fornicators, <a id="chapter5_verse10"></a><b><sup>10 </sup></b>not meaning entirely with the fornicators of this world or the greedy persons and extortioners or idolaters. Otherwise, <span class="smcap">YOU </span>would actually have to get out of the world. <a id="chapter5_verse11"></a><b><sup>11 </sup></b>But now I am writing <span class="smcap">YOU </span>to quit mixing in company with anyone called a brother that is a fornicator or a greedy person or an idolater or a reviler or a drunkard or an extortioner, not even eating with such a man. <a id="chapter5_verse12"></a><b><sup>12 </sup></b>For what do I have to do with judging those outside? Do <span class="smcap">YOU </span>not judge those inside, <a id="chapter5_verse13"></a><b><sup>13 </sup></b>while God judges those outside? “Remove the wicked man from among yourselves.”</p>
</body>
</html>
