<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="application/xhtml+xml; charset=utf-8" />
<title>1 Corinthians 12</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/bi12.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
<p class="w_biblebookname">1 Corinthians</p><p class="sb"><a id="chapter12"></a><a id="chapter12_verse1"></a><span class="w_ch"><b>12 </b></span>Now concerning the spiritual gifts, brothers, I do not want <span class="smcap">YOU </span>to be ignorant. <a id="chapter12_verse2"></a><b><sup>2 </sup></b>Y<span class="smcap">OU </span>know that when <span class="smcap">YOU </span>were people of the nations, <span class="smcap">YOU </span>were being led away to those voiceless idols just as <span class="smcap">YOU </span>happened to be led. <a id="chapter12_verse3"></a><b><sup>3 </sup></b>Therefore I would have <span class="smcap">YOU </span>know that nobody when speaking by God’s spirit says: “Jesus is accursed!” and nobody can say: “Jesus is Lord!” except by holy spirit.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter12_verse4"></a><b><sup>4 </sup></b>Now there are varieties of gifts, but there is the same spirit; <a id="chapter12_verse5"></a><b><sup>5 </sup></b>and there are varieties of ministries, and yet there is the same Lord; <a id="chapter12_verse6"></a><b><sup>6 </sup></b>and there are varieties of operations, and yet it is the same God who performs all the operations in all persons. <a id="chapter12_verse7"></a><b><sup>7 </sup></b>But the manifestation of the spirit is given to each one for a beneficial purpose. <a id="chapter12_verse8"></a><b><sup>8 </sup></b>For example, to one there is given through the spirit speech of wisdom, to another speech of knowledge according to the same spirit, <a id="chapter12_verse9"></a><b><sup>9 </sup></b>to another faith by the same spirit, to another gifts of healings by that one spirit, <a id="chapter12_verse10"></a><b><sup>10 </sup></b>to yet another operations of powerful works, to another prophesying, to another discernment of inspired utterances, to another different tongues, and to another interpretation of tongues. <a id="chapter12_verse11"></a><b><sup>11 </sup></b>But all these operations the one and the same spirit performs, making a distribution to each one respectively just as it wills.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter12_verse12"></a><b><sup>12 </sup></b>For just as the body is one but has many members, and all the members of that body, although being many, are one body, so also is the Christ. <a id="chapter12_verse13"></a><b><sup>13 </sup></b>For truly by one spirit we were all baptized into one body, whether Jews or Greeks, whether slaves or free, and we were all made to drink one spirit.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter12_verse14"></a><b><sup>14 </sup></b>For the body, indeed, is not one member, but many. <a id="chapter12_verse15"></a><b><sup>15 </sup></b>If the foot should say: “Because I am not a hand, I am no part of the body,” it is not for this reason no part of the body. <a id="chapter12_verse16"></a><b><sup>16 </sup></b>And if the ear should say: “Because I am not an eye, I am no part of the body,” it is not for this reason no part of the body. <a id="chapter12_verse17"></a><b><sup>17 </sup></b>If the whole body were an eye, where would the sense of hearing be? If it were all hearing, where would the smelling be? <a id="chapter12_verse18"></a><b><sup>18 </sup></b>But now God has set the members in the body, each one of them, just as he pleased.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter12_verse19"></a><b><sup>19 </sup></b>If they were all one member, where would the body be? <a id="chapter12_verse20"></a><b><sup>20 </sup></b>But now they are many members, yet one body. <a id="chapter12_verse21"></a><b><sup>21 </sup></b>The eye cannot say to the hand: “I have no need of you”; or, again, the head cannot say to the feet: “I have no need of <span class="smcap">YOU</span>.” <a id="chapter12_verse22"></a><b><sup>22 </sup></b>But much rather is it the case that the members of the body which seem to be weaker are necessary, <a id="chapter12_verse23"></a><b><sup>23 </sup></b>and the parts of the body which we think to be less honorable, these we surround with more abundant honor, and so our unseemly parts have the more abundant comeliness, <a id="chapter12_verse24"></a><b><sup>24 </sup></b>whereas our comely parts do not need anything. Nevertheless, God compounded the body, giving honor more abundant to the <a id="page1435"></a>part which had a lack, <a id="chapter12_verse25"></a><b><sup>25 </sup></b>so that there should be no division in the body, but that its members should have the same care for one another. <a id="chapter12_verse26"></a><b><sup>26 </sup></b>And if one member suffers, all the other members suffer with it; or if a member is glorified, all the other members rejoice with it.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter12_verse27"></a><b><sup>27 </sup></b>Now <span class="smcap">YOU </span>are Christ’s body, and members individually. <a id="chapter12_verse28"></a><b><sup>28 </sup></b>And God has set the respective ones in the congregation, first, apostles; second, prophets; third, teachers; then powerful works; then gifts of healings; helpful services, abilities to direct, different tongues. <a id="chapter12_verse29"></a><b><sup>29 </sup></b>Not all are apostles, are they? Not all are prophets, are they? Not all are teachers, are they? Not all perform powerful works, do they? <a id="chapter12_verse30"></a><b><sup>30 </sup></b>Not all have gifts of healings, do they? Not all speak in tongues, do they? Not all are translators, are they? <a id="chapter12_verse31"></a><b><sup>31 </sup></b>But keep zealously seeking the greater gifts. And yet I show <span class="smcap">YOU </span>a surpassing way.</p>
</body>
</html>
