<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="application/xhtml+xml; charset=utf-8" />
<title>Colossians</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/bi12.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
<p class="st"><a id="page1469"></a><b>To the Colossians</b></p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter1"></a><a id="chapter1_verse1"></a><span class="w_ch"><b>1 </b></span>Paul, an apostle of Christ Jesus through God’s will, and Timothy our brother <a id="chapter1_verse2"></a><b><sup>2 </sup></b>to the holy ones and faithful brothers in union with Christ at Co·los′sae:</p>
<p class="sb">May <span class="smcap">YOU </span>have undeserved kindness and peace from God our Father.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter1_verse3"></a><b><sup>3 </sup></b>We thank God the Father of our Lord Jesus Christ always when we pray for <span class="smcap">YOU</span>, <a id="chapter1_verse4"></a><b><sup>4 </sup></b>since we heard of <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>faith in connection with Christ Jesus and the love <span class="smcap">YOU </span>have for all the holy ones <a id="chapter1_verse5"></a><b><sup>5 </sup></b>because of the hope that is being reserved for <span class="smcap">YOU </span>in the heavens. This hope <span class="smcap">YOU </span>heard of before by the telling of the truth of that good news <a id="chapter1_verse6"></a><b><sup>6 </sup></b>which has presented itself to <span class="smcap">YOU</span>, even as it is bearing fruit and increasing in all the world just as it is doing also among <span class="smcap">YOU</span>, from the day <span class="smcap">YOU </span>heard and accurately knew the undeserved kindness of God in truth. <a id="chapter1_verse7"></a><b><sup>7 </sup></b>That is what <span class="smcap">YOU </span>have learned from Ep′a·phras our beloved fellow slave, who is a faithful minister of the Christ on our behalf, <a id="chapter1_verse8"></a><b><sup>8 </sup></b>who also disclosed to us <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>love in a spiritual way.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter1_verse9"></a><b><sup>9 </sup></b>That is also why we, from the day we heard of it, have not ceased praying for <span class="smcap">YOU </span>and asking that <span class="smcap">YOU </span>may be filled with the accurate knowledge of his will in all wisdom and spiritual comprehension, <a id="chapter1_verse10"></a><b><sup>10 </sup></b>in order to walk worthily of Jehovah to the end of fully pleasing him as <span class="smcap">YOU </span>go on bearing fruit in every good work and increasing in the accurate knowledge of God, <a id="chapter1_verse11"></a><b><sup>11 </sup></b>being made powerful with all power to the extent of his glorious might so as to endure fully and be long-suffering with joy, <a id="chapter1_verse12"></a><b><sup>12 </sup></b>thanking the Father who rendered <span class="smcap">YOU </span>suitable for <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>participation in the inheritance of the holy ones in the light.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter1_verse13"></a><b><sup>13 </sup></b>He delivered us from the authority of the darkness and transferred us into the kingdom of the Son of his love, <a id="chapter1_verse14"></a><b><sup>14 </sup></b>by means of whom we have our release by ransom, the forgiveness of our sins. <a id="chapter1_verse15"></a><b><sup>15 </sup></b>He is the image of the invisible God, the firstborn of all creation; <a id="chapter1_verse16"></a><b><sup>16 </sup></b>because by means of him all other things were created in the heavens and upon the earth, the things visible and the things invisible, no matter whether they are thrones or lordships or governments or authorities. All other things have <a id="page1470"></a>been created through him and for him. <a id="chapter1_verse17"></a><b><sup>17 </sup></b>Also, he is before all other things and by means of him all other things were made to exist, <a id="chapter1_verse18"></a><b><sup>18 </sup></b>and he is the head of the body, the congregation. He is the beginning, the firstborn from the dead, that he might become the one who is first in all things; <a id="chapter1_verse19"></a><b><sup>19 </sup></b>because God saw good for all fullness to dwell in him, <a id="chapter1_verse20"></a><b><sup>20 </sup></b>and through him to reconcile again to himself all other things by making peace through the blood he shed on the torture stake, no matter whether they are the things upon the earth or the things in the heavens.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter1_verse21"></a><b><sup>21 </sup></b>Indeed, <span class="smcap">YOU </span>who were once alienated and enemies because <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>minds were on the works that were wicked, <a id="chapter1_verse22"></a><b><sup>22 </sup></b>he now has again reconciled by means of that one’s fleshly body through his death, in order to present <span class="smcap">YOU </span>holy and unblemished and open to no accusation before him, <a id="chapter1_verse23"></a><b><sup>23 </sup></b>provided, of course, that <span class="smcap">YOU </span>continue in the faith, established on the foundation and steadfast and not being shifted away from the hope of that good news which <span class="smcap">YOU </span>heard, and which was preached in all creation that is under heaven. Of this good news I Paul became a minister.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter1_verse24"></a><b><sup>24 </sup></b>I am now rejoicing in my sufferings for <span class="smcap">YOU</span>, and I, in my turn, am filling up what is lacking of the tribulations of the Christ in my flesh on behalf of his body, which is the congregation. <a id="chapter1_verse25"></a><b><sup>25 </sup></b>I became a minister of this congregation in accordance with the stewardship from God which was given me in <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>interest to preach the word of God fully, <a id="chapter1_verse26"></a><b><sup>26 </sup></b>the sacred secret that was hidden from the past systems of things and from the past generations. But now it has been made manifest to his holy ones, <a id="chapter1_verse27"></a><b><sup>27 </sup></b>to whom God has been pleased to make known what are the glorious riches of this sacred secret among the nations. It is Christ in union with <span class="smcap">YOU</span>, the hope of his glory. <a id="chapter1_verse28"></a><b><sup>28 </sup></b>He is the one we are publicizing, admonishing every man and teaching every man in all wisdom, that we may present every man complete in union with Christ. <a id="chapter1_verse29"></a><b><sup>29 </sup></b>To this end I am indeed working hard, exerting myself in accordance with the operation of him and which is at work in me with power.</p>
</body>
</html>
