<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="application/xhtml+xml; charset=utf-8" />
<title>1 Thessalonians 5</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/bi12.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
<p class="w_biblebookname">1 Thessalonians</p><p class="sb"><a id="chapter5"></a><a id="chapter5_verse1"></a><span class="w_ch"><b>5 </b></span>Now as for the times and the seasons, brothers, <span class="smcap">YOU </span>need nothing to be written to <span class="smcap">YOU</span>. <a id="chapter5_verse2"></a><b><sup>2 </sup></b>For <span class="smcap">YOU </span>yourselves know quite well that Jehovah’s day is coming exactly as a thief in the night. <a id="chapter5_verse3"></a><b><sup>3 </sup></b>Whenever it is that they are saying: “Peace and security!” then sudden destruction is to be instantly upon them just as the pang of distress upon a pregnant woman; and they will by no means escape. <a id="chapter5_verse4"></a><b><sup>4 </sup></b>But <span class="smcap">YOU</span>, brothers, <span class="smcap">YOU </span>are not in darkness, so that that day should overtake <span class="smcap">YOU </span>as it would thieves, <a id="chapter5_verse5"></a><b><sup>5 </sup></b>for <span class="smcap">YOU </span>are all sons of light and sons of day. We belong neither to night nor to darkness.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter5_verse6"></a><b><sup>6 </sup></b>So, then, let us not sleep on as the rest do, but let us stay awake and keep our senses. <a id="chapter5_verse7"></a><b><sup>7 </sup></b>For those who sleep are accustomed to sleep at night, and those who get drunk are usually drunk at night. <a id="chapter5_verse8"></a><b><sup>8 </sup></b>But as for us who belong to the day, let us keep our senses and have on the breastplate of faith and love and as a helmet the hope of salvation; <a id="chapter5_verse9"></a><b><sup>9 </sup></b>because God assigned us, not to wrath, but to the acquiring of salvation through our Lord Jesus Christ. <a id="chapter5_verse10"></a><b><sup>10 </sup></b>He died for us, that, whether we stay awake or are asleep, we should live together with him. <a id="chapter5_verse11"></a><b><sup>11 </sup></b>Therefore keep comforting one another and building one another up, just as <span class="smcap">YOU </span>are in fact doing.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter5_verse12"></a><b><sup>12 </sup></b>Now we request <span class="smcap">YOU</span>, brothers, to have regard for those who are working hard among <span class="smcap">YOU </span>and presiding over <span class="smcap">YOU </span>in the Lord and admonishing <span class="smcap">YOU</span>; <a id="chapter5_verse13"></a><b><sup>13 </sup></b>and to give them more than extraordinary consideration in love because of their work. Be peaceable with one another. <a id="chapter5_verse14"></a><b><sup>14 </sup></b>On the other hand, we exhort <span class="smcap">YOU</span>, brothers, admonish the disorderly, speak consolingly to the depressed souls, support the weak, be long-suffering toward all. <a id="chapter5_verse15"></a><b><sup>15 </sup></b>See that no one renders injury for injury to anyone else, but always pursue what is good toward one another and to all others.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="page1477"></a><a id="chapter5_verse16"></a><b><sup>16 </sup></b>Always be rejoicing. <a id="chapter5_verse17"></a><b><sup>17 </sup></b>Pray incessantly. <a id="chapter5_verse18"></a><b><sup>18 </sup></b>In connection with everything give thanks. For this is the will of God in union with Christ Jesus respecting <span class="smcap">YOU</span>. <a id="chapter5_verse19"></a><b><sup>19 </sup></b>Do not put out the fire of the spirit. <a id="chapter5_verse20"></a><b><sup>20 </sup></b>Do not treat prophesyings with contempt. <a id="chapter5_verse21"></a><b><sup>21 </sup></b>Make sure of all things; hold fast to what is fine. <a id="chapter5_verse22"></a><b><sup>22 </sup></b>Abstain from every form of wickedness.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter5_verse23"></a><b><sup>23 </sup></b>May the very God of peace sanctify <span class="smcap">YOU </span>completely. And sound in every respect may the spirit and soul and body of <span class="smcap">YOU </span>brothers be preserved in a blameless manner at the presence of our Lord Jesus Christ. <a id="chapter5_verse24"></a><b><sup>24 </sup></b>He who is calling <span class="smcap">YOU </span>is faithful, and he will also do it.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter5_verse25"></a><b><sup>25 </sup></b>Brothers, continue in prayer for us.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter5_verse26"></a><b><sup>26 </sup></b>Greet all the brothers with a holy kiss.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter5_verse27"></a><b><sup>27 </sup></b>I am putting <span class="smcap">YOU </span>under the solemn obligation by the Lord for this letter to be read to all the brothers.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter5_verse28"></a><b><sup>28 </sup></b>The undeserved kindness of our Lord Jesus Christ be with <span class="smcap">YOU</span>.</p>
</body>
</html>
