<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="application/xhtml+xml; charset=utf-8" />
<title>1 Timothy 3</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/bi12.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
<p class="w_biblebookname">1 Timothy</p><p class="sb"><a id="chapter3"></a><a id="chapter3_verse1"></a><span class="w_ch"><b>3 </b></span>That statement is faithful.</p>
<p class="sb">If any man is reaching out for an office of overseer, he is desirous of a fine work. <a id="chapter3_verse2"></a><b><sup>2 </sup></b>The overseer should therefore be irreprehensible, a husband of one wife, moderate in habits, sound in mind, orderly, hospitable, qualified to teach, <a id="chapter3_verse3"></a><b><sup>3 </sup></b>not a drunken brawler, not a smiter, but reasonable, not belligerent, not a lover of money, <a id="chapter3_verse4"></a><b><sup>4 </sup></b>a man presiding over his own household in a fine manner, having children in subjection with all seriousness; <a id="chapter3_verse5"></a><b><sup>5 </sup></b>(if indeed any man does not know how to preside over his own household, how will he take care of God’s congregation?) <a id="chapter3_verse6"></a><b><sup>6 </sup></b>not a newly converted man, for fear that he might get puffed up with pride and fall into the judgment passed upon the Devil. <a id="chapter3_verse7"></a><b><sup>7 </sup></b>Moreover, he should also have a fine testimony from people on the outside, in order that he might not fall into reproach and a snare of the Devil.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter3_verse8"></a><b><sup>8 </sup></b>Ministerial servants should likewise be serious, not double-tongued, not giving themselves to a lot of wine, not greedy of dishonest gain, <a id="chapter3_verse9"></a><b><sup>9 </sup></b>holding the sacred secret of the faith with a clean conscience.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter3_verse10"></a><b><sup>10 </sup></b>Also, let these be tested as to fitness first, then let them serve as ministers, as they are free from accusation.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter3_verse11"></a><b><sup>11 </sup></b>Women should likewise be serious, not slanderous, moderate in habits, faithful in all things.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter3_verse12"></a><b><sup>12 </sup></b>Let ministerial servants be husbands of one wife, presiding in a fine manner over children and their own households. <a id="chapter3_verse13"></a><b><sup>13 </sup></b>For the men who minister in a fine manner are acquiring for themselves a fine standing and great freeness of speech in the faith in connection with Christ Jesus.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter3_verse14"></a><b><sup>14 </sup></b>I am writing you these things, though I am hoping to come to you shortly, <a id="chapter3_verse15"></a><b><sup>15 </sup></b>but in case I am delayed, that you may know how you ought to conduct yourself in God’s household, which is the congregation of the living God, a pillar and support of the truth. <a id="chapter3_verse16"></a><b><sup>16 </sup></b>Indeed, the sacred secret of this godly devotion is admittedly great: ‘He was made manifest in flesh, was declared righteous in spirit, appeared to angels, was preached about among nations, was believed upon in the world, was received up in glory.’</p>
</body>
</html>
