<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="application/xhtml+xml; charset=utf-8" />
<title>1 Timothy 2</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/bi12.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
<p class="w_biblebookname">1 Timothy</p><p class="sb"><a id="chapter2"></a><a id="chapter2_verse1"></a><span class="w_ch"><b>2 </b></span>I therefore exhort, first of all, that supplications, prayers, intercessions, offerings of thanks, be made concerning all sorts of men, <a id="chapter2_verse2"></a><b><sup>2 </sup></b>concerning kings and all those who are in high station; in order that we may go on leading a calm and quiet life with full godly devotion and seriousness. <a id="chapter2_verse3"></a><b><sup>3 </sup></b>This is fine and acceptable in the sight of our Savior, God, <a id="chapter2_verse4"></a><b><sup>4 </sup></b>whose will is that all sorts of men should be saved and come to an accurate knowledge of truth. <a id="chapter2_verse5"></a><b><sup>5 </sup></b>For there is one God, and one mediator between God and men, a man, Christ Jesus, <a id="chapter2_verse6"></a><b><sup>6 </sup></b>who gave himself a corresponding ransom for all—this is what is to be witnessed to at its own particular times. <a id="chapter2_verse7"></a><b><sup>7 </sup></b>For the purpose of this witness I was appointed a preacher and an apostle—I am telling the truth, I am not lying—a teacher of nations in the matter of faith and truth.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter2_verse8"></a><b><sup>8 </sup></b>Therefore I desire that in every place the men carry on prayer, lifting up loyal hands, apart from wrath and debates. <a id="chapter2_verse9"></a><b><sup>9 </sup></b>Likewise I desire the women to adorn themselves in well-arranged dress, with modesty and soundness of mind, not with styles of hair braiding and <a id="page1481"></a>gold or pearls or very expensive garb, <a id="chapter2_verse10"></a><b><sup>10 </sup></b>but in the way that befits women professing to reverence God, namely, through good works.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter2_verse11"></a><b><sup>11 </sup></b>Let a woman learn in silence with full submissiveness. <a id="chapter2_verse12"></a><b><sup>12 </sup></b>I do not permit a woman to teach, or to exercise authority over a man, but to be in silence. <a id="chapter2_verse13"></a><b><sup>13 </sup></b>For Adam was formed first, then Eve. <a id="chapter2_verse14"></a><b><sup>14 </sup></b>Also, Adam was not deceived, but the woman was thoroughly deceived and came to be in transgression. <a id="chapter2_verse15"></a><b><sup>15 </sup></b>However, she will be kept safe through childbearing, provided they continue in faith and love and sanctification along with soundness of mind.</p>
</body>
</html>
