<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="application/xhtml+xml; charset=utf-8" />
<title>1 Timothy 4</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/bi12.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
<p class="w_biblebookname">1 Timothy</p><p class="sb"><a id="chapter4"></a><a id="chapter4_verse1"></a><span class="w_ch"><b>4 </b></span>However, the inspired utterance says definitely that in later periods of time some will fall away from the faith, paying attention to misleading inspired utterances and teachings of demons, <a id="chapter4_verse2"></a><b><sup>2 </sup></b>by the hypocrisy of men who speak lies, marked in their conscience as with a branding iron; <a id="chapter4_verse3"></a><b><sup>3 </sup></b>forbidding to marry, commanding to <a id="page1482"></a>abstain from foods which God created to be partaken of with thanksgiving by those who have faith and accurately know the truth. <a id="chapter4_verse4"></a><b><sup>4 </sup></b>The reason for this is that every creation of God is fine, and nothing is to be rejected if it is received with thanksgiving, <a id="chapter4_verse5"></a><b><sup>5 </sup></b>for it is sanctified through God’s word and prayer over it.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter4_verse6"></a><b><sup>6 </sup></b>By giving these advices to the brothers you will be a fine minister of Christ Jesus, one nourished with the words of the faith and of the fine teaching which you have followed closely. <a id="chapter4_verse7"></a><b><sup>7 </sup></b>But turn down the false stories which violate what is holy and which old women tell. On the other hand, be training yourself with godly devotion as your aim. <a id="chapter4_verse8"></a><b><sup>8 </sup></b>For bodily training is beneficial for a little; but godly devotion is beneficial for all things, as it holds promise of the life now and that which is to come. <a id="chapter4_verse9"></a><b><sup>9 </sup></b>Faithful and deserving of full acceptance is that statement. <a id="chapter4_verse10"></a><b><sup>10 </sup></b>For to this end we are working hard and exerting ourselves, because we have rested our hope on a living God, who is a Savior of all sorts of men, especially of faithful ones.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter4_verse11"></a><b><sup>11 </sup></b>Keep on giving these commands and teaching them. <a id="chapter4_verse12"></a><b><sup>12 </sup></b>Let no man ever look down on your youth. On the contrary, become an example to the faithful ones in speaking, in conduct, in love, in faith, in chasteness. <a id="chapter4_verse13"></a><b><sup>13 </sup></b>While I am coming, continue applying yourself to public reading, to exhortation, to teaching. <a id="chapter4_verse14"></a><b><sup>14 </sup></b>Do not be neglecting the gift in you that was given you through a prediction and when the body of older men laid their hands upon you. <a id="chapter4_verse15"></a><b><sup>15 </sup></b>Ponder over these things; be absorbed in them, that your advancement may be manifest to all persons. <a id="chapter4_verse16"></a><b><sup>16 </sup></b>Pay constant attention to yourself and to your teaching. Stay by these things, for by doing this you will save both yourself and those who listen to you.</p>
</body>
</html>
