<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="application/xhtml+xml; charset=utf-8" />
<title>2 Timothy 2</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/bi12.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
<p class="w_biblebookname">2 Timothy</p><p class="sb"><a id="chapter2"></a><a id="chapter2_verse1"></a><span class="w_ch"><b>2 </b></span>You, therefore, my child, keep on acquiring power in the undeserved kindness that is in connection with Christ Jesus, <a id="chapter2_verse2"></a><b><sup>2 </sup></b>and the things you heard from me with the support of many witnesses, these things commit to faithful men, who, in turn, will be adequately qualified to teach others. <a id="chapter2_verse3"></a><b><sup>3 </sup></b>As a fine soldier of Christ Jesus take your part in suffering evil. <a id="chapter2_verse4"></a><b><sup>4 </sup></b>No man serving as a soldier involves himself in the commercial businesses of life, in order that he may gain the approval of the one who enrolled him as a soldier. <a id="chapter2_verse5"></a><b><sup>5 </sup></b>Moreover, if anyone contends even in the games, he is not crowned unless he has contended according to the rules. <a id="chapter2_verse6"></a><b><sup>6 </sup></b>The hardworking farmer must be the first to partake of the fruits. <a id="chapter2_verse7"></a><b><sup>7 </sup></b>Give constant thought to what I am saying; the Lord will really give you discernment in all things.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter2_verse8"></a><b><sup>8 </sup></b>Remember that Jesus Christ was raised up from the dead and was of David’s seed, according to the good news I preach; <a id="chapter2_verse9"></a><b><sup>9 </sup></b>in connection with which I am suffering evil to the point of prison bonds as an evildoer. Nevertheless, the word of God is not bound. <a id="chapter2_verse10"></a><b><sup>10 </sup></b>On this account I go on enduring all things for the sake of the chosen ones, that they too may obtain the salvation that is in union <a id="page1486"></a>with Christ Jesus along with everlasting glory. <a id="chapter2_verse11"></a><b><sup>11 </sup></b>Faithful is the saying: Certainly if we died together, we shall also live together; <a id="chapter2_verse12"></a><b><sup>12 </sup></b>if we go on enduring, we shall also rule together as kings; if we deny, he also will deny us; <a id="chapter2_verse13"></a><b><sup>13 </sup></b>if we are unfaithful, he remains faithful, for he cannot deny himself.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter2_verse14"></a><b><sup>14 </sup></b>Keep reminding them of these things, charging them before God as witness, not to fight about words, a thing of no usefulness at all because it overturns those listening. <a id="chapter2_verse15"></a><b><sup>15 </sup></b>Do your utmost to present yourself approved to God, a workman with nothing to be ashamed of, handling the word of the truth aright. <a id="chapter2_verse16"></a><b><sup>16 </sup></b>But shun empty speeches that violate what is holy; for they will advance to more and more ungodliness, <a id="chapter2_verse17"></a><b><sup>17 </sup></b>and their word will spread like gangrene. Hy·me·nae′us and Phi·le′tus are of that number. <a id="chapter2_verse18"></a><b><sup>18 </sup></b>These very men have deviated from the truth, saying that the resurrection has already occurred; and they are subverting the faith of some. <a id="chapter2_verse19"></a><b><sup>19 </sup></b>For all that, the solid foundation of God stays standing, having this seal: “Jehovah knows those who belong to him,” and: “Let everyone naming the name of Jehovah renounce unrighteousness.”</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter2_verse20"></a><b><sup>20 </sup></b>Now in a large house there are vessels not only of gold and silver but also of wood and earthenware, and some for an honorable purpose but others for a purpose lacking honor. <a id="chapter2_verse21"></a><b><sup>21 </sup></b>If, therefore, anyone keeps clear of the latter ones, he will be a vessel for an honorable purpose, sanctified, useful to his owner, prepared for every good work. <a id="chapter2_verse22"></a><b><sup>22 </sup></b>So, flee from the desires incidental to youth, but pursue righteousness, faith, love, peace, along with those who call upon the Lord out of a clean heart.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter2_verse23"></a><b><sup>23 </sup></b>Further, turn down foolish and ignorant questionings, knowing they produce fights. <a id="chapter2_verse24"></a><b><sup>24 </sup></b>But a slave of the Lord does not need to fight, but needs to be gentle toward all, qualified to teach, keeping himself restrained under evil, <a id="chapter2_verse25"></a><b><sup>25 </sup></b>instructing with mildness those not favorably disposed; as perhaps God may give them repentance leading to an accurate knowledge of truth, <a id="chapter2_verse26"></a><b><sup>26 </sup></b>and they may come back to their proper senses out from the snare of the Devil, seeing that they have been caught alive by him for the will of that one.</p>
</body>
</html>
