<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="application/xhtml+xml; charset=utf-8" />
<title>2 Timothy 4</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/bi12.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
<p class="w_biblebookname">2 Timothy</p><p class="sb"><a id="chapter4"></a><a id="chapter4_verse1"></a><span class="w_ch"><b>4 </b></span>I solemnly charge you before God and Christ Jesus, who is destined to judge the living and the dead, and by his manifestation and his kingdom, <a id="chapter4_verse2"></a><b><sup>2 </sup></b>preach the word, be at it urgently in favorable season, in troublesome season, reprove, reprimand, exhort, with all long-suffering and art of teaching. <a id="chapter4_verse3"></a><b><sup>3 </sup></b>For there will be a period of time when they will not put up with the healthful teaching, but, in accord with their own desires, they will accumulate teachers for themselves to have their ears tickled; <a id="chapter4_verse4"></a><b><sup>4 </sup></b>and they will turn their ears away from the truth, whereas they will be turned aside to false stories. <a id="chapter4_verse5"></a><b><sup>5 </sup></b>You, though, keep your senses in all things, suffer evil, do the work of an evangelizer, fully accomplish your ministry.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter4_verse6"></a><b><sup>6 </sup></b>For I am already being poured out like a drink offering, and the due time for my releasing is imminent. <a id="chapter4_verse7"></a><b><sup>7 </sup></b>I have fought the fine fight, I have run the course to the finish, I have observed the faith. <a id="chapter4_verse8"></a><b><sup>8 </sup></b>From this time on there is reserved for me the crown of righteousness, which the Lord, the righteous judge, will give me as a reward in that day, yet not only to me, but also to all those who have loved his manifestation.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter4_verse9"></a><b><sup>9 </sup></b>Do your utmost to come to me shortly. <a id="chapter4_verse10"></a><b><sup>10 </sup></b>For De′mas has forsaken me because he loved the present system of things, and he has gone to Thes·sa·lo·ni′ca; Cres′cens to Ga·la′ti·a, Titus to Dal·ma′tia. <a id="chapter4_verse11"></a><b><sup>11 </sup></b>Luke alone is with me. Take Mark and bring him with you, for he is useful to me for ministering. <a id="chapter4_verse12"></a><b><sup>12 </sup></b>But I have sent Tych′i·cus off to Eph′e·sus. <a id="chapter4_verse13"></a><b><sup>13 </sup></b>When you come, bring the cloak I left at Tro′as with Carpus, and the scrolls, especially the parchments.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter4_verse14"></a><b><sup>14 </sup></b>Alexander the coppersmith did me many injuries—Jehovah will repay him according to his deeds— <a id="chapter4_verse15"></a><b><sup>15 </sup></b>and you too be on guard against him, for he resisted our words to an excessive degree.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter4_verse16"></a><b><sup>16 </sup></b>In my first defense no one <a id="page1488"></a>came to my side, but they all proceeded to forsake me—may it not be put to their account— <a id="chapter4_verse17"></a><b><sup>17 </sup></b>but the Lord stood near me and infused power into me, that through me the preaching might be fully accomplished and all the nations might hear it; and I was delivered from the lion’s mouth. <a id="chapter4_verse18"></a><b><sup>18 </sup></b>The Lord will deliver me from every wicked work and will save me for his heavenly kingdom. To him be the glory forever and ever. Amen.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter4_verse19"></a><b><sup>19 </sup></b>Give my greetings to Pris′ca and Aq′ui·la and the household of On·e·siph′o·rus.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter4_verse20"></a><b><sup>20 </sup></b>E·ras′tus stayed in Corinth, but I left Troph′i·mus sick at Mi·le′tus. <a id="chapter4_verse21"></a><b><sup>21 </sup></b>Do your utmost to arrive before winter.</p>
<p class="sb">Eu·bu′lus sends you his greetings, and so do Pu′dens and Li′nus and Clau′di·a and all the brothers.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter4_verse22"></a><b><sup>22 </sup></b>The Lord be with the spirit you show. His undeserved kindness be with <span class="smcap">YOU </span>people.</p>
</body>
</html>
