<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="application/xhtml+xml; charset=utf-8" />
<title>Titus 2</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/bi12.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
<p class="w_biblebookname">Titus</p><p class="sb"><a id="chapter2"></a><a id="chapter2_verse1"></a><span class="w_ch"><b>2 </b></span>You, however, keep on speaking what things are fitting for healthful teaching. <a id="chapter2_verse2"></a><b><sup>2 </sup></b>Let the aged men be moderate in habits, serious, sound in mind, healthy in faith, in love, in endurance. <a id="chapter2_verse3"></a><b><sup>3 </sup></b>Likewise let the aged women be reverent in behavior, not slanderous, neither enslaved to a lot of wine, teachers of what is good; <a id="chapter2_verse4"></a><b><sup>4 </sup></b>that they may recall the young women to their senses to love their husbands, to love their children, <a id="chapter2_verse5"></a><b><sup>5 </sup></b>to be sound in mind, chaste, workers at home, good, subjecting themselves to their own husbands, so that the word of God may not be spoken of abusively.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter2_verse6"></a><b><sup>6 </sup></b>Likewise keep on exhorting the younger men to be sound in mind, <a id="chapter2_verse7"></a><b><sup>7 </sup></b>in all things showing yourself an example of fine works; showing uncorruptness in your teaching, seriousness, <a id="chapter2_verse8"></a><b><sup>8 </sup></b>wholesome speech which cannot be condemned; so that the man on the opposing side may get ashamed, having nothing vile to say about us. <a id="chapter2_verse9"></a><b><sup>9 </sup></b>Let slaves be in subjection to their owners in all things, and please them well, not talking back, <a id="chapter2_verse10"></a><b><sup>10 </sup></b>not committing theft, but exhibiting good fidelity to the full, so that they may adorn the teaching of our Savior, God, in all things.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter2_verse11"></a><b><sup>11 </sup></b>For the undeserved kindness of God which brings salvation to all sorts of men has been manifested, <a id="chapter2_verse12"></a><b><sup>12 </sup></b>instructing us to repudiate ungodliness and worldly desires and to live with soundness of mind and righteousness and godly devotion amid this present system of things, <a id="chapter2_verse13"></a><b><sup>13 </sup></b>while we wait for the happy hope and glorious manifestation of the great God and of the Savior of us, Christ Jesus, <a id="chapter2_verse14"></a><b><sup>14 </sup></b>who gave himself for us that he might deliver us from every sort of lawlessness and cleanse for himself a people peculiarly his own, zealous for fine works.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter2_verse15"></a><b><sup>15 </sup></b>Keep on speaking these things and exhorting and reproving with full authority to command. Let no man ever despise you.</p>
</body>
</html>
