<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="application/xhtml+xml; charset=utf-8" />
<title>James 3</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/bi12.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
<p class="w_biblebookname">James</p><p class="sb"><a id="chapter3"></a><a id="chapter3_verse1"></a><span class="w_ch"><b>3 </b></span>Not many of <span class="smcap">YOU </span>should become teachers, my brothers, knowing that we shall receive heavier judgment. <a id="chapter3_verse2"></a><b><sup>2 </sup></b>For we all stumble many times. If anyone does not stumble in word, this one is a perfect man, able to bridle also his whole body. <a id="chapter3_verse3"></a><b><sup>3 </sup></b>If we put bridles in the mouths of horses for them to obey us, we manage also their whole body. <a id="chapter3_verse4"></a><b><sup>4 </sup></b>Look! Even boats, although they are so big and are driven by hard winds, are steered by a very small rudder to where the inclination of the man at the helm wishes.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter3_verse5"></a><b><sup>5 </sup></b>So, too, the tongue is a little member and yet makes great brags. Look! How little a fire it takes to set so great a woodland on fire! <a id="chapter3_verse6"></a><b><sup>6 </sup></b>Well, the tongue is a fire. The tongue is constituted a world of unrighteousness among our members, for it spots up all the body and sets the wheel of natural life aflame and it is set aflame by Ge·hen′na. <a id="chapter3_verse7"></a><b><sup>7 </sup></b>For every species of wild beast as well as bird and creeping thing and sea creature is to be tamed and has been tamed by humankind. <a id="chapter3_verse8"></a><b><sup>8 </sup></b>But the tongue, not one of mankind can get it tamed. An unruly injurious thing, it is full of death-dealing poison. <a id="chapter3_verse9"></a><b><sup>9 </sup></b>With it we bless Jehovah, even the Father, and yet with it we curse men who have <a id="page1508"></a>come into existence “in the likeness of God.” <a id="chapter3_verse10"></a><b><sup>10 </sup></b>Out of the same mouth come forth blessing and cursing.</p>
<p class="sb">It is not proper, my brothers, for these things to go on occurring this way. <a id="chapter3_verse11"></a><b><sup>11 </sup></b>A fountain does not cause the sweet and the bitter to bubble out of the same opening, does it? <a id="chapter3_verse12"></a><b><sup>12 </sup></b>My brothers, a fig tree cannot produce olives or a vine figs, can it? Neither can salt water produce sweet water.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter3_verse13"></a><b><sup>13 </sup></b>Who is wise and understanding among <span class="smcap">YOU</span>? Let him show out of his fine conduct his works with a mildness that belongs to wisdom. <a id="chapter3_verse14"></a><b><sup>14 </sup></b>But if <span class="smcap">YOU </span>have bitter jealousy and contentiousness in <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>hearts, do not be bragging and lying against the truth. <a id="chapter3_verse15"></a><b><sup>15 </sup></b>This is not the wisdom that comes down from above, but is the earthly, animal, demonic. <a id="chapter3_verse16"></a><b><sup>16 </sup></b>For where jealousy and contentiousness are, there disorder and every vile thing are.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter3_verse17"></a><b><sup>17 </sup></b>But the wisdom from above is first of all chaste, then peaceable, reasonable, ready to obey, full of mercy and good fruits, not making partial distinctions, not hypocritical. <a id="chapter3_verse18"></a><b><sup>18 </sup></b>Moreover, the fruit of righteousness has its seed sown under peaceful conditions for those who are making peace.</p>
</body>
</html>
