<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="application/xhtml+xml; charset=utf-8" />
<title>James 5</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/bi12.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
<p class="w_biblebookname">James</p><p class="sb"><a id="chapter5"></a><a id="chapter5_verse1"></a><span class="w_ch"><b>5 </b></span>Come, now, <span class="smcap">YOU </span>rich men, weep, howling over <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>miseries that are coming upon <span class="smcap">YOU</span>. <a id="chapter5_verse2"></a><b><sup>2 </sup></b>Y<span class="smcap">OUR </span>riches have rotted, and <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>outer garments have become moth-eaten. <a id="chapter5_verse3"></a><b><sup>3 </sup></b>Y<span class="smcap">OUR </span>gold and silver are rusted away, and their rust will be as a witness against <span class="smcap">YOU </span>and will eat <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>fleshy parts. Something like fire is what <span class="smcap">YOU </span>have stored up in the last days. <a id="chapter5_verse4"></a><b><sup>4 </sup></b>Look! The wages due the workers who harvested <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>fields but which are held up by <span class="smcap">YOU</span>, keep crying out, and the calls for help on the part of the reapers have entered into the ears of Jehovah of armies. <a id="chapter5_verse5"></a><b><sup>5 </sup></b>Y<span class="smcap">OU </span>have lived in luxury upon the earth and have gone in for sensual pleasure. Y<span class="smcap">OU </span>have fattened <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>hearts on the day of slaughter. <a id="chapter5_verse6"></a><b><sup>6 </sup></b>Y<span class="smcap">OU </span>have condemned, <span class="smcap">YOU </span>have murdered the righteous one. Is he not opposing <span class="smcap">YOU</span>?</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter5_verse7"></a><b><sup>7 </sup></b>Exercise patience, therefore, brothers, until the presence of the Lord. Look! The farmer keeps waiting for the precious fruit of the earth, exercising patience over it until he gets the early rain and the late rain. <a id="chapter5_verse8"></a><b><sup>8 </sup></b>Y<span class="smcap">OU </span>too exercise patience; make <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>hearts firm, because the presence of the Lord has drawn close.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter5_verse9"></a><b><sup>9 </sup></b>Do not heave sighs against one another, brothers, so that <span class="smcap">YOU </span>do not get judged. Look! The Judge is standing before the doors. <a id="chapter5_verse10"></a><b><sup>10 </sup></b>Brothers, take as a pattern of the suffering of evil and the exercising of patience the prophets, who spoke in the name of Jehovah. <a id="chapter5_verse11"></a><b><sup>11 </sup></b>Look! We pronounce happy those who have endured. Y<span class="smcap">OU </span>have heard of the endurance of Job and have seen the outcome Jehovah gave, that Jehovah is very tender in affection and merciful.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter5_verse12"></a><b><sup>12 </sup></b>Above all things, though, my brothers, stop swearing, yes, either by heaven or by earth or by any other oath. But let <span class="smcap">YOUR <i>Yes </i></span><i></i>mean Yes, and <span class="smcap">YOUR <i>No, </i></span><i></i>No, so that <span class="smcap">YOU </span>do not fall under judgment.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter5_verse13"></a><b><sup>13 </sup></b>Is there anyone suffering evil among <span class="smcap">YOU</span>? Let him carry on prayer. Is there anyone in good spirits? Let him sing psalms. <a id="chapter5_verse14"></a><b><sup>14 </sup></b>Is there anyone sick among <span class="smcap">YOU</span>? Let him call the older men of the congregation to him, and let them pray over him, greasing him with oil in the name of Jehovah. <a id="chapter5_verse15"></a><b><sup>15 </sup></b>And the prayer of faith will make the indisposed one well, and Jehovah will raise him up. Also, if he has committed sins, it will be forgiven him.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter5_verse16"></a><b><sup>16 </sup></b>Therefore openly confess <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>sins to one another and pray for one another, that <span class="smcap">YOU </span>may get healed. A righteous man’s supplication, when it is at work, has much force. <a id="chapter5_verse17"></a><b><sup>17 </sup></b>E·li′jah was a man with feelings like ours, and yet in prayer he prayed for it not to rain; and it did not rain upon the land for three years and six months. <a id="chapter5_verse18"></a><b><sup>18 </sup></b>And he prayed again, and the heaven gave rain and the land put forth its fruit.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter5_verse19"></a><b><sup>19 </sup></b>My brothers, if anyone among <span class="smcap">YOU </span>is misled from the truth and another turns him back, <a id="chapter5_verse20"></a><b><sup>20 </sup></b>know that he who turns a sinner back from the error of his way will save his soul from death and will cover a multitude of sins.</p>
</body>
</html>
