<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="application/xhtml+xml; charset=utf-8" />
<title>2 Peter</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/bi12.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
<p class="st"><a id="page1515"></a><b>The Second of Peter</b></p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter1"></a><a id="chapter1_verse1"></a><span class="w_ch"><b>1 </b></span>Simon Peter, a slave and apostle of Jesus Christ, to those who have obtained a faith, held in equal privilege with ours, by the righteousness of our God and the Savior Jesus Christ:</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter1_verse2"></a><b><sup>2 </sup></b>May undeserved kindness and peace be increased to <span class="smcap">YOU </span>by an accurate knowledge of God and of Jesus our Lord, <a id="chapter1_verse3"></a><b><sup>3 </sup></b>forasmuch as his divine power has given us freely all the things that concern life and godly devotion, through the accurate knowledge of the one who called us through glory and virtue. <a id="chapter1_verse4"></a><b><sup>4 </sup></b>Through these things he has freely given us the precious and very grand promises, that through these <span class="smcap">YOU </span>may become sharers in divine nature, having escaped from the corruption that is in the world through lust.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter1_verse5"></a><b><sup>5 </sup></b>Yes, for this very reason, by <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>contributing in response all earnest effort, supply to <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>faith virtue, to <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>virtue knowledge, <a id="chapter1_verse6"></a><b><sup>6 </sup></b>to <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>knowledge self-control, to <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>self-control endurance, to <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>endurance godly devotion, <a id="chapter1_verse7"></a><b><sup>7 </sup></b>to <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>godly devotion brotherly affection, to <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>brotherly affection love. <a id="chapter1_verse8"></a><b><sup>8 </sup></b>For if these things exist in <span class="smcap">YOU </span>and overflow, they will prevent <span class="smcap">YOU </span>from being either inactive or unfruitful regarding the accurate knowledge of our Lord Jesus Christ.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter1_verse9"></a><b><sup>9 </sup></b>For if these things are not present in anyone, he is blind, shutting his eyes to the light, and has become forgetful of his cleansing from his sins of long ago. <a id="chapter1_verse10"></a><b><sup>10 </sup></b>For this reason, brothers, all the more do <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>utmost to make the calling and choosing of <span class="smcap">YOU </span>sure for yourselves; for if <span class="smcap">YOU </span>keep on doing these things <span class="smcap">YOU </span>will by no means ever fail. <a id="chapter1_verse11"></a><b><sup>11 </sup></b>In fact, thus there will be richly supplied to <span class="smcap">YOU </span>the entrance into the everlasting kingdom of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter1_verse12"></a><b><sup>12 </sup></b>For this reason I shall be disposed always to remind <span class="smcap">YOU </span>of these things, although <span class="smcap">YOU </span>know them and are firmly set in the truth that is present in <span class="smcap">YOU</span>. <a id="chapter1_verse13"></a><b><sup>13 </sup></b>But I consider it right, as long as I am in this tabernacle, to rouse <span class="smcap">YOU </span>up by way of reminding <span class="smcap">YOU</span>, <a id="chapter1_verse14"></a><b><sup>14 </sup></b>knowing as I do that the putting off of my tabernacle is soon to be, just as also our Lord Jesus Christ signified to me. <a id="chapter1_verse15"></a><b><sup>15 </sup></b>So I will do my utmost also at every time that, after my departure, <span class="smcap">YOU </span>may be able to make mention of these things for yourselves.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter1_verse16"></a><b><sup>16 </sup></b>No, it was not by following artfully contrived false stories that we acquainted <span class="smcap">YOU </span>with the power and presence of our Lord Jesus Christ, but it was by having become eyewitnesses of his magnificence. <a id="chapter1_verse17"></a><b><sup>17 </sup></b>For he received from God the Father honor and glory, when words such as these were borne to him by the magnificent glory: “This is my son, my beloved, whom I myself have approved.” <a id="chapter1_verse18"></a><b><sup>18 </sup></b>Yes, these words we heard borne from heaven while we were with him in the holy mountain.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter1_verse19"></a><b><sup>19 </sup></b>Consequently we have the prophetic word made more sure; and <span class="smcap">YOU </span>are doing well in paying attention to it as to a lamp shining in a dark place, until day dawns and a daystar rises, in <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>hearts. <a id="chapter1_verse20"></a><b><sup>20 </sup></b>For <span class="smcap">YOU </span>know this first, that no prophecy of Scripture springs <a id="page1516"></a>from any private interpretation. <a id="chapter1_verse21"></a><b><sup>21 </sup></b>For prophecy was at no time brought by man’s will, but men spoke from God as they were borne along by holy spirit.</p>
</body>
</html>
