<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="application/xhtml+xml; charset=utf-8" />
<title>1 John 2</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/bi12.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
<p class="w_biblebookname">1 John</p><p class="sb"><a id="chapter2"></a><a id="chapter2_verse1"></a><span class="w_ch"><b>2 </b></span>My little children, I am writing <span class="smcap">YOU </span>these things that <span class="smcap">YOU </span>may not commit a sin. And yet, if anyone does commit a sin, we have a helper with the Father, Jesus Christ, a righteous one. <a id="chapter2_verse2"></a><b><sup>2 </sup></b>And he is a propitiatory sacrifice for our sins, yet not for ours only but also for the whole world’s. <a id="chapter2_verse3"></a><b><sup>3 </sup></b>And by this we have the knowledge that we have come to know him, namely, if we continue observing his commandments. <a id="chapter2_verse4"></a><b><sup>4 </sup></b>He that says: “I have come to know him,” and yet is not observing his commandments, is a liar, and the truth is not in this person. <a id="chapter2_verse5"></a><b><sup>5 </sup></b>But whoever does observe his word, truthfully in <a id="page1519"></a>this person the love of God has been made perfect. By this we have the knowledge that we are in union with him. <a id="chapter2_verse6"></a><b><sup>6 </sup></b>He that says he remains in union with him is under obligation himself also to go on walking just as that one walked.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter2_verse7"></a><b><sup>7 </sup></b>Beloved ones, I am writing <span class="smcap">YOU</span>, not a new commandment, but an old commandment which <span class="smcap">YOU </span>have had from the beginning. This old commandment is the word which <span class="smcap">YOU </span>heard. <a id="chapter2_verse8"></a><b><sup>8 </sup></b>Again, I am writing <span class="smcap">YOU </span>a new commandment, a fact that is true in his case and in <span class="smcap">YOURS</span>, because the darkness is passing away and the true light is already shining.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter2_verse9"></a><b><sup>9 </sup></b>He that says he is in the light and yet hates his brother is in the darkness up to right now. <a id="chapter2_verse10"></a><b><sup>10 </sup></b>He that loves his brother remains in the light, and there is no cause for stumbling in his case. <a id="chapter2_verse11"></a><b><sup>11 </sup></b>But he that hates his brother is in the darkness and is walking in the darkness, and he does not know where he is going, because the darkness has blinded his eyes.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter2_verse12"></a><b><sup>12 </sup></b>I am writing <span class="smcap">YOU</span>, little children, because <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>sins have been forgiven <span class="smcap">YOU </span>for the sake of his name. <a id="chapter2_verse13"></a><b><sup>13 </sup></b>I am writing <span class="smcap">YOU</span>, fathers, because <span class="smcap">YOU </span>have come to know him who is from the beginning. I am writing <span class="smcap">YOU</span>, young men, because <span class="smcap">YOU </span>have conquered the wicked one. I write <span class="smcap">YOU</span>, young children, because <span class="smcap">YOU </span>have come to know the Father. <a id="chapter2_verse14"></a><b><sup>14 </sup></b>I write <span class="smcap">YOU</span>, fathers, because <span class="smcap">YOU </span>have come to know him who is from the beginning. I write <span class="smcap">YOU</span>, young men, because <span class="smcap">YOU </span>are strong and the word of God remains in <span class="smcap">YOU </span>and <span class="smcap">YOU </span>have conquered the wicked one.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter2_verse15"></a><b><sup>15 </sup></b>Do not be loving either the world or the things in the world. If anyone loves the world, the love of the Father is not in him; <a id="chapter2_verse16"></a><b><sup>16 </sup></b>because everything in the world—the desire of the flesh and the desire of the eyes and the showy display of one’s means of life—does not originate with the Father, but originates with the world. <a id="chapter2_verse17"></a><b><sup>17 </sup></b>Furthermore, the world is passing away and so is its desire, but he that does the will of God remains forever.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter2_verse18"></a><b><sup>18 </sup></b>Young children, it is the last hour, and, just as <span class="smcap">YOU </span>have heard that antichrist is coming, even now there have come to be many antichrists; from which fact we gain the knowledge that it is the last hour. <a id="chapter2_verse19"></a><b><sup>19 </sup></b>They went out from us, but they were not of our sort; for if they had been of our sort, they would have remained with us. But they went out that it might be shown up that not all are of our sort. <a id="chapter2_verse20"></a><b><sup>20 </sup></b>And <span class="smcap">YOU </span>have an anointing from the holy one; all of <span class="smcap">YOU </span>have knowledge. <a id="chapter2_verse21"></a><b><sup>21 </sup></b>I write <span class="smcap">YOU</span>, not because <span class="smcap">YOU </span>do not know the truth, but because <span class="smcap">YOU </span>know it, and because no lie originates with the truth.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter2_verse22"></a><b><sup>22 </sup></b>Who is the liar if it is not the one that denies that Jesus is the Christ? This is the antichrist, the one that denies the Father and the Son. <a id="chapter2_verse23"></a><b><sup>23 </sup></b>Everyone that denies the Son does not have the Father either. He that confesses the Son has the Father also. <a id="chapter2_verse24"></a><b><sup>24 </sup></b>As for <span class="smcap">YOU</span>, let that which <span class="smcap">YOU </span>have heard from the beginning remain in <span class="smcap">YOU</span>. If that which <span class="smcap">YOU </span>have heard from the beginning remains in <span class="smcap">YOU</span>, <span class="smcap">YOU </span>will also abide in union with the Son and in union with the Father. <a id="chapter2_verse25"></a><b><sup>25 </sup></b>Furthermore, this is the promised thing that he himself promised us, the life everlasting.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="page1520"></a><a id="chapter2_verse26"></a><b><sup>26 </sup></b>These things I write <span class="smcap">YOU </span>about those who are trying to mislead <span class="smcap">YOU</span>. <a id="chapter2_verse27"></a><b><sup>27 </sup></b>And as for <span class="smcap">YOU</span>, the anointing that <span class="smcap">YOU </span>received from him remains in <span class="smcap">YOU</span>, and <span class="smcap">YOU </span>do not need anyone to be teaching <span class="smcap">YOU</span>; but, as the anointing from him is teaching <span class="smcap">YOU </span>about all things, and is true and is no lie, and just as it has taught <span class="smcap">YOU</span>, remain in union with him. <a id="chapter2_verse28"></a><b><sup>28 </sup></b>So now, little children, remain in union with him, that when he is made manifest we may have freeness of speech and not be shamed away from him at his presence. <a id="chapter2_verse29"></a><b><sup>29 </sup></b>If <span class="smcap">YOU </span>know that he is righteous, <span class="smcap">YOU </span>gain the knowledge that everyone who practices righteousness has been born from him.</p>
</body>
</html>
