<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="application/xhtml+xml; charset=utf-8" />
<title>1 John 5</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/bi12.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
<p class="w_biblebookname">1 John</p><p class="sb"><a id="chapter5"></a><a id="chapter5_verse1"></a><span class="w_ch"><b>5 </b></span>Everyone believing that Jesus is the Christ has been born from God, and everyone who loves the one that caused to be born loves him who has been born from that one. <a id="chapter5_verse2"></a><b><sup>2 </sup></b>By this we gain the knowledge that we are loving the children of God, when we are loving God and doing his commandments. <a id="chapter5_verse3"></a><b><sup>3 </sup></b>For this is what the love of God means, that we observe his commandments; and yet his commandments are not burdensome, <a id="chapter5_verse4"></a><b><sup>4 </sup></b>because everything that has been born from God conquers the world. And this is the conquest that has conquered the world, our faith.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter5_verse5"></a><b><sup>5 </sup></b>Who is the one that conquers the world but he who has faith that Jesus is the Son of God? <a id="chapter5_verse6"></a><b><sup>6 </sup></b>This is he that came by means of water and blood, Jesus Christ; not with the water only, but with the water and with the blood. And the spirit is that which is bearing witness, because the spirit is the truth. <a id="chapter5_verse7"></a><b><sup>7 </sup></b>For there are three witness bearers, <a id="chapter5_verse8"></a><b><sup>8 </sup></b>the spirit and the water and the blood, and the three are in agreement.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter5_verse9"></a><b><sup>9 </sup></b>If we receive the witness men give, the witness God gives is greater, because this is the witness God gives, the fact that he has borne witness concerning his Son. <a id="chapter5_verse10"></a><b><sup>10 </sup></b>The person putting his faith in the Son of God has the witness given in his own case. The person not having faith in God has made him a liar, because he has not put his faith in the witness given, which God as witness has given concerning his Son. <a id="chapter5_verse11"></a><b><sup>11 </sup></b>And this is the witness given, that God gave us everlasting life, and this life is in his Son. <a id="chapter5_verse12"></a><b><sup>12 </sup></b>He that has the Son has this life; he that does not have the Son of God does not have this life.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter5_verse13"></a><b><sup>13 </sup></b>I write <span class="smcap">YOU </span>these things that <span class="smcap">YOU </span>may know that <span class="smcap">YOU </span>have life everlasting, <span class="smcap">YOU </span>who put <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>faith in the name of the Son of God. <a id="chapter5_verse14"></a><b><sup>14 </sup></b>And this is the confidence that we have toward him, that, no matter what it is that we ask according to his will, he hears us. <a id="chapter5_verse15"></a><b><sup>15 </sup></b>Further, if we know he hears us respecting whatever we are asking, we know we are to have the things asked since we have asked them of him.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter5_verse16"></a><b><sup>16 </sup></b>If anyone catches sight of his brother sinning a sin that does not incur death, he will ask, and he will give life to him, yes, to those not sinning so as to incur death. There is a sin <a id="page1523"></a>that does incur death. It is concerning that sin that I do not tell him to make request. <a id="chapter5_verse17"></a><b><sup>17 </sup></b>All unrighteousness is sin; and yet there is a sin that does not incur death.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter5_verse18"></a><b><sup>18 </sup></b>We know that every person that has been born from God does not practice sin, but the One born from God watches him, and the wicked one does not fasten his hold on him. <a id="chapter5_verse19"></a><b><sup>19 </sup></b>We know we originate with God, but the whole world is lying in the power of the wicked one. <a id="chapter5_verse20"></a><b><sup>20 </sup></b>But we know that the Son of God has come, and he has given us intellectual capacity that we may gain the knowledge of the true one. And we are in union with the true one, by means of his Son Jesus Christ. This is the true God and life everlasting. <a id="chapter5_verse21"></a><b><sup>21 </sup></b>Little children, guard yourselves from idols.</p>
</body>
</html>
