<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="application/xhtml+xml; charset=utf-8" />
<title>Revelation 22</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/bi12.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
<p class="w_biblebookname">Revelation</p><p class="sb"><a id="chapter22"></a><a id="chapter22_verse1"></a><span class="w_ch"><b>22 </b></span>And he showed me a river of water of life, clear as crystal, flowing out from the throne of God and of the Lamb <a id="chapter22_verse2"></a><b><sup>2 </sup></b>down the middle of its broad way. And on this side of the river and on that side there were trees of life producing twelve crops of fruit, yielding their fruits each <a id="page1547"></a>month. And the leaves of the trees were for the curing of the nations.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter22_verse3"></a><b><sup>3 </sup></b>And no more will there be any curse. But the throne of God and of the Lamb will be in the city, and his slaves will render him sacred service; <a id="chapter22_verse4"></a><b><sup>4 </sup></b>and they will see his face, and his name will be on their foreheads. <a id="chapter22_verse5"></a><b><sup>5 </sup></b>Also, night will be no more, and they have no need of lamplight nor do they have sunlight, because Jehovah God will shed light upon them, and they will rule as kings forever and ever.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter22_verse6"></a><b><sup>6 </sup></b>And he said to me: “These words are faithful and true; yes, Jehovah the God of the inspired expressions of the prophets sent his angel forth to show his slaves the things that must shortly take place. <a id="chapter22_verse7"></a><b><sup>7 </sup></b>And, look! I am coming quickly. Happy is anyone observing the words of the prophecy of this scroll.”</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter22_verse8"></a><b><sup>8 </sup></b>Well, I John was the one hearing and seeing these things. And when I had heard and seen, I fell down to worship before the feet of the angel that had been showing me these things. <a id="chapter22_verse9"></a><b><sup>9 </sup></b>But he tells me: “Be careful! Do not do that! All I am is a fellow slave of you and of your brothers who are prophets and of those who are observing the words of this scroll. Worship God.”</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter22_verse10"></a><b><sup>10 </sup></b>He also tells me: “Do not seal up the words of the prophecy of this scroll, for the appointed time is near. <a id="chapter22_verse11"></a><b><sup>11 </sup></b>He that is doing unrighteousness, let him do unrighteousness still; and let the filthy one be made filthy still; but let the righteous one do righteousness still, and let the holy one be made holy still.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter22_verse12"></a><b><sup>12 </sup></b>“‘Look! I am coming quickly, and the reward I give is with me, to render to each one as his work is. <a id="chapter22_verse13"></a><b><sup>13 </sup></b>I am the Al′pha and the O·me′ga, the first and the last, the beginning and the end. <a id="chapter22_verse14"></a><b><sup>14 </sup></b>Happy are those who wash their robes, that the authority to go to the trees of life may be theirs and that they may gain entrance into the city by its gates. <a id="chapter22_verse15"></a><b><sup>15 </sup></b>Outside are the dogs and those who practice spiritism and the fornicators and the murderers and the idolaters and everyone liking and carrying on a lie.’</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter22_verse16"></a><b><sup>16 </sup></b>“‘I, Jesus, sent my angel to bear witness to <span class="smcap">YOU </span>people of these things for the congregations. I am the root and the offspring of David, and the bright morning star.’”</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter22_verse17"></a><b><sup>17 </sup></b>And the spirit and the bride keep on saying: “Come!” And let anyone hearing say: “Come!” And let anyone thirsting come; let anyone that wishes take life’s water free.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter22_verse18"></a><b><sup>18 </sup></b>“I am bearing witness to everyone that hears the words of the prophecy of this scroll: If anyone makes an addition to these things, God will add to him the plagues that are written in this scroll; <a id="chapter22_verse19"></a><b><sup>19 </sup></b>and if anyone takes anything away from the words of the scroll of this prophecy, God will take his portion away from the trees of life and out of the holy city, things which are written about in this scroll.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter22_verse20"></a><b><sup>20 </sup></b>“He that bears witness of these things says, ‘Yes; I am coming quickly.’”</p>
<p class="sb">“Amen! Come, Lord Jesus.”</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter22_verse21"></a><b><sup>21 </sup></b>May the undeserved kindness of the Lord Jesus Christ be with the holy ones.</p>
</body>
</html>
