<div>
  <p class="w_biblebookname">Leviticus</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter1"></a>
    <a id="chapter1_verse1"></a>
    <span class="w_ch">
      <b>1 </b>
    </span>And Jehovah proceeded to call Moses and speak to him out of the tent of meeting, saying: <a id="chapter1_verse2"></a><b><sup>2 </sup></b>“Speak to the sons of Israel, and you must say to them, ‘In case some man of <span class="smcap">YOU </span>would present an offering to Jehovah from the domestic animals, <span class="smcap">YOU </span>should present <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>offering from the herd and from the flock.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter1_verse3"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>3 </sup>
    </b>“‘If his offering is a burnt offering from the herd, a male, a sound one, is what he should present. At the entrance of the tent of meeting he should present it of his own free will before Jehovah. <a id="chapter1_verse4"></a><b><sup>4 </sup></b>And he must lay his hand upon the head of the burnt offering, and it must be graciously accepted for him to make atonement for him.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter1_verse5"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>5 </sup>
    </b>“‘Then the young bull must be slaughtered before Jehovah; and the sons of Aaron, the priests, must present the blood and sprinkle the blood round about upon the altar, which is at the entrance of the tent of meeting. <a id="chapter1_verse6"></a><b><sup>6 </sup></b>And the burnt offering must be skinned and cut up into its parts. <a id="chapter1_verse7"></a><b><sup>7 </sup></b>And the sons of Aaron, the priests, must put fire on the altar and set wood in order on the fire. <a id="chapter1_verse8"></a><b><sup>8 </sup></b>And the sons of Aaron, the priests, must set the pieces in order with the head and the suet over the wood that is on the fire that is on the altar. <a id="chapter1_verse9"></a><b><sup>9 </sup></b>And its intestines and its shanks will be washed with water; and the priest must make all of it smoke on the altar as a burnt offering, an offering made by fire of a restful odor to Jehovah.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter1_verse10"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>10 </sup>
    </b>“‘And if his offering for a burnt offering is from the flock, from the young rams or the goats, a male, a sound one, is what he will present. <a id="chapter1_verse11"></a><b><sup>11 </sup></b>And it must be slaughtered at the side of the altar to the north before Jehovah, and the sons of Aaron, the priests, must sprinkle its blood round about upon the altar. <a id="chapter1_verse12"></a><b><sup>12 </sup></b>And he must cut it up into its parts and its head and its suet, and the priest must set them in order over the wood that is on the fire that is on the altar. <a id="chapter1_verse13"></a><b><sup>13 </sup></b>And he will wash the intestines and the shanks with water; and the priest must present all of it and make it smoke on the altar. It is a burnt offering, an offering made by fire of a restful odor to Jehovah.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter1_verse14"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>14 </sup>
    </b>“‘However, if his offering as a burnt offering to Jehovah is from the fowls, then he must present his offering from the turtledoves or the young pigeons. <a id="chapter1_verse15"></a><b><sup>15 </sup></b>And the priest must present it at the altar and nip off its head and make it smoke upon the altar, but its blood must be drained out upon the side of the altar. <a id="chapter1_verse16"></a><b><sup>16 </sup></b>And he must remove its crop with its feathers and throw it beside the altar, to the east, to the place for the fatty ashes. <a id="chapter1_verse17"></a><b><sup>17 </sup></b>And he must cleave it at its wings. He must not divide it. Then the priest must make it smoke on the altar over the wood that is on the fire. It is a burnt offering, an offering made by fire of a restful odor to Jehovah.</p>
</div>