<div>
  <p class="w_biblebookname">Numbers</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter29"></a>
    <a id="chapter29_verse1"></a>
    <span class="w_ch">
      <b>29 </b>
    </span>“‘And in the seventh month, on the first of the month, <span class="smcap">YOU </span>should hold a holy convention. No sort of laborious work must <span class="smcap">YOU </span>do. It should prove to be a day of the trumpet blast for <span class="smcap">YOU</span>. <a id="chapter29_verse2"></a><b><sup>2 </sup></b>And <span class="smcap">YOU </span>must render up as a burnt offering for a restful odor to Jehovah one young bull, one ram, seven male lambs each a year old, sound ones; <a id="chapter29_verse3"></a><b><sup>3 </sup></b>and their grain offering of fine flour moistened with oil, three tenth measures for the bull, two tenth measures for the ram, <a id="chapter29_verse4"></a><b><sup>4 </sup></b>and one tenth measure for each male lamb of the seven male lambs; <a id="chapter29_verse5"></a><b><sup>5 </sup></b>and one male kid of the goats as a sin offering to make atonement for <span class="smcap">YOU</span>; <a id="chapter29_verse6"></a><b><sup>6 </sup></b>aside from the monthly burnt offering and its grain offering and the constant burnt offering and its grain offering, together with their drink offerings, according to the regular procedure for them, as a restful odor, an offering made by fire to Jehovah.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter29_verse7"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>7 </sup>
    </b>“‘And on the tenth of this seventh month <span class="smcap">YOU </span>should hold a holy convention, and <span class="smcap">YOU </span>must afflict <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>souls. No sort of work must <span class="smcap">YOU </span>do. <a id="chapter29_verse8"></a><b><sup>8 </sup></b>And <span class="smcap">YOU </span>must present as a burnt offering to Jehovah, as a restful odor, one young bull, one ram, seven male lambs each a year old. They should prove to be sound ones for <span class="smcap">YOU</span>. <a id="chapter29_verse9"></a><b><sup>9 </sup></b>And as their grain offering of fine flour moistened with oil three tenth measures for the bull, two tenth measures for the one ram, <a id="chapter29_verse10"></a><b><sup>10 </sup></b>a tenth measure respectively for each male <a id="page224"></a>lamb of the seven male lambs; <a id="chapter29_verse11"></a><b><sup>11 </sup></b>one kid of the goats as a sin offering, aside from the sin offering of atonement and the constant burnt offering and its grain offering, together with their drink offerings.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter29_verse12"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>12 </sup>
    </b>“‘And on the fifteenth day of the seventh month <span class="smcap">YOU </span>should hold a holy convention. No sort of laborious work must <span class="smcap">YOU </span>do, and <span class="smcap">YOU </span>must celebrate a festival to Jehovah seven days. <a id="chapter29_verse13"></a><b><sup>13 </sup></b>And <span class="smcap">YOU </span>must present as a burnt offering, an offering made by fire, of a restful odor to Jehovah, thirteen young bulls, two rams, fourteen male lambs each a year old. They should prove to be sound ones. <a id="chapter29_verse14"></a><b><sup>14 </sup></b>And as their grain offering of fine flour moistened with oil three tenth measures for each bull of the thirteen bulls, two tenth measures for each ram of the two rams, <a id="chapter29_verse15"></a><b><sup>15 </sup></b>and a tenth measure for each male lamb of the fourteen male lambs; <a id="chapter29_verse16"></a><b><sup>16 </sup></b>and one kid of the goats as a sin offering, aside from the constant burnt offering, its grain offering and its drink offering.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter29_verse17"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>17 </sup>
    </b>“‘And on the second day twelve young bulls, two rams, fourteen male lambs each a year old, sound ones; <a id="chapter29_verse18"></a><b><sup>18 </sup></b>and their grain offering and their drink offerings for the bulls, the rams and the male lambs by their number according to the regular procedure; <a id="chapter29_verse19"></a><b><sup>19 </sup></b>and one kid of the goats as a sin offering, aside from the constant burnt offering and its grain offering, together with their drink offerings.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter29_verse20"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>20 </sup>
    </b>“‘And on the third day eleven bulls, two rams, fourteen male lambs each a year old, sound ones; <a id="chapter29_verse21"></a><b><sup>21 </sup></b>and their grain offering and their drink offerings for the bulls, the rams and the male lambs by their number according to the regular procedure; <a id="chapter29_verse22"></a><b><sup>22 </sup></b>and one goat as a sin offering, aside from the constant burnt offering and its grain offering and its drink offering.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter29_verse23"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>23 </sup>
    </b>“‘And on the fourth day ten bulls, two rams, fourteen male lambs each a year old, sound ones; <a id="chapter29_verse24"></a><b><sup>24 </sup></b>their grain offering and their drink offerings for the bulls, the rams and the male lambs by their number according to the regular procedure; <a id="chapter29_verse25"></a><b><sup>25 </sup></b>and one kid of the goats as a sin offering, aside from the constant burnt offering, its grain offering and its drink offering.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter29_verse26"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>26 </sup>
    </b>“‘And on the fifth day nine bulls, two rams, fourteen male lambs each a year old, sound ones; <a id="chapter29_verse27"></a><b><sup>27 </sup></b>and their grain offering and their drink offerings for the bulls, the rams and the male lambs by their number according to the regular procedure; <a id="chapter29_verse28"></a><b><sup>28 </sup></b>and one goat as a sin offering, aside from the constant burnt offering and its grain offering and its drink offering.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter29_verse29"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>29 </sup>
    </b>“‘And on the sixth day eight bulls, two rams, fourteen male lambs each a year old, sound ones; <a id="chapter29_verse30"></a><b><sup>30 </sup></b>and their grain offering and their drink offerings for the bulls, the rams and the male lambs by their number according to the regular procedure; <a id="chapter29_verse31"></a><b><sup>31 </sup></b>and one goat as a sin offering, aside from the constant burnt offering, its grain offering and its drink offerings.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter29_verse32"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>32 </sup>
    </b>“‘And on the seventh day seven bulls, two rams, fourteen male lambs each a year old, sound ones; <a id="chapter29_verse33"></a><b><sup>33 </sup></b>and their grain offering and their drink offerings for the bulls, the rams and the male lambs by their number according to the regular procedure for them; <a id="chapter29_verse34"></a><b><sup>34 </sup></b>and one goat as a sin offering, aside from the constant burnt offering, its grain offering and its drink offering.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter29_verse35"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>35 </sup>
    </b>“‘And on the eighth day <span class="smcap">YOU </span>should hold a solemn assembly. No sort of laborious work <a id="page225"></a>must <span class="smcap">YOU </span>do. <a id="chapter29_verse36"></a><b><sup>36 </sup></b>And <span class="smcap">YOU </span>must present as a burnt offering, an offering made by fire, of a restful odor to Jehovah, one bull, one ram, seven male lambs each a year old, sound ones; <a id="chapter29_verse37"></a><b><sup>37 </sup></b>and their grain offering and their drink offerings for the bull, the ram and the male lambs by their number according to the regular procedure; <a id="chapter29_verse38"></a><b><sup>38 </sup></b>and one goat as a sin offering, aside from the constant burnt offering and its grain offering and its drink offering.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter29_verse39"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>39 </sup>
    </b>“‘These <span class="smcap">YOU </span>will render up to Jehovah at <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>seasonal festivals, besides <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>vow offerings and <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>voluntary offerings as <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>burnt offerings and <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>grain offerings and <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>drink offerings and <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>communion sacrifices.’” <a id="chapter29_verse40"></a><b><sup>40 </sup></b>And Moses proceeded to talk to the sons of Israel according to everything that Jehovah had commanded Moses.</p>
</div>