<book>
  <p class="w_biblebookname">Numbers</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter15"></a>
    <a id="chapter15_verse1"></a>
    <span class="w_ch">
      <b>15 </b>
    </span>And Jehovah spoke further to Moses, saying: <a id="chapter15_verse2"></a><b><sup>2 </sup></b>“Speak to the sons of Israel, and you must say to them, ‘When <span class="smcap">YOU </span>eventually come into the land of <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>dwelling places, which I am giving <span class="smcap">YOU</span>, <a id="chapter15_verse3"></a><b><sup>3 </sup></b>and <span class="smcap">YOU </span>must render up an offering made by fire to Jehovah, a burnt offering or a sacrifice to perform a special vow or voluntarily or during <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>seasonal festivals, in order to make a restful odor to Jehovah, from the herd or from the flock; <a id="chapter15_verse4"></a><b><sup>4 </sup></b>the one presenting his offering must also present to Jehovah a grain offering of fine flour, a tenth of an e′phah, moistened with a fourth of a hin of oil. <a id="chapter15_verse5"></a><b><sup>5 </sup></b>And you should render up wine as a drink offering, the fourth of a hin, together with the burnt offering or for the sacrifice of each male lamb. <a id="chapter15_verse6"></a><b><sup>6 </sup></b>Or for a ram you should render up a grain offering of two tenths of fine flour, moistened with a third of a hin of oil. <a id="chapter15_verse7"></a><b><sup>7 </sup></b>And you should present wine as a drink offering, a third of a hin, as a restful odor to Jehovah.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter15_verse8"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>8 </sup>
    </b>“‘But in case you should render up a male of the herd as a burnt offering or a sacrifice to perform a special vow or communion sacrifices to Jehovah, <a id="chapter15_verse9"></a><b><sup>9 </sup></b>one must also present together with the male of the herd a grain offering of three tenths of fine flour, moistened with half a hin of oil. <a id="chapter15_verse10"></a><b><sup>10 </sup></b>And you should present wine as a drink offering, half a hin, as an offering made by fire, of a restful odor to Jehovah. <a id="chapter15_verse11"></a><b><sup>11 </sup></b>This is the way it should be done for each bull or for each ram or for one head among the male lambs or among the goats. <a id="page202"></a><a id="chapter15_verse12"></a><b><sup>12 </sup></b>Whatever may be the number that <span class="smcap">YOU </span>may render up, that is the way <span class="smcap">YOU </span>should do for each one according to the number of them. <a id="chapter15_verse13"></a><b><sup>13 </sup></b>Every native should render up these in this way in presenting an offering made by fire, of a restful odor to Jehovah.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter15_verse14"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>14 </sup>
    </b>“‘And in case there should be residing as an alien with <span class="smcap">YOU </span>an alien resident or one who is in <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>midst for generations of <span class="smcap">YOU</span>, and he must render up an offering made by fire, of a restful odor to Jehovah, just as <span class="smcap">YOU </span>should do, so he should do. <a id="chapter15_verse15"></a><b><sup>15 </sup></b>Y<span class="smcap">OU </span>who are of the congregation and the alien resident who is residing as an alien will have one statute. It will be a statute to time indefinite for <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>generations. The alien resident should prove to be the same as <span class="smcap">YOU </span>before Jehovah. <a id="chapter15_verse16"></a><b><sup>16 </sup></b>There should prove to be one law and one judicial decision for <span class="smcap">YOU </span>and for the alien resident who is residing as an alien with <span class="smcap">YOU</span>.’”</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter15_verse17"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>17 </sup>
    </b>And Jehovah went on to speak to Moses, saying: <a id="chapter15_verse18"></a><b><sup>18 </sup></b>“Speak to the sons of Israel, and you must say to them, ‘On <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>coming into the land where I am bringing <span class="smcap">YOU</span>, <a id="chapter15_verse19"></a><b><sup>19 </sup></b>it must also occur that when <span class="smcap">YOU </span>eat any of the bread of the land, <span class="smcap">YOU </span>should make a contribution to Jehovah. <a id="chapter15_verse20"></a><b><sup>20 </sup></b>Y<span class="smcap">OU </span>should make a contribution of the firstfruits of <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>coarse meal as ring-shaped cakes. Like the contribution of a threshing floor is the way <span class="smcap">YOU </span>should contribute it. <a id="chapter15_verse21"></a><b><sup>21 </sup></b>Some of the firstfruits of <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>coarse meal <span class="smcap">YOU </span>should give as a contribution to Jehovah throughout <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>generations.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter15_verse22"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>22 </sup>
    </b>“‘Now in case <span class="smcap">YOU </span>should make a mistake and not do all these commandments, which Jehovah has spoken to Moses, <a id="chapter15_verse23"></a><b><sup>23 </sup></b>all that Jehovah has commanded <span class="smcap">YOU </span>by means of Moses from the day that Jehovah commanded and onward for <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>generations, <a id="chapter15_verse24"></a><b><sup>24 </sup></b>it must then occur that if it has been done far from the eyes of the assembly by mistake, the whole assembly must then render up one young bull as a burnt offering for a restful odor to Jehovah, and its grain offering and its drink offering according to the regular procedure, and one kid of the goats as a sin offering. <a id="chapter15_verse25"></a><b><sup>25 </sup></b>And the priest must make atonement for the whole assembly of the sons of Israel, and it must be forgiven them; because it was a mistake, and they, for their part, brought as their offering an offering made by fire to Jehovah and their sin offering before Jehovah for their mistake. <a id="chapter15_verse26"></a><b><sup>26 </sup></b>And it must be forgiven the whole assembly of the sons of Israel and the alien resident who is residing as an alien in their midst, because it was by mistake on the part of all the people.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter15_verse27"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>27 </sup>
    </b>“‘And if any soul should sin by mistake, then he must present a female goat in its first year for a sin offering. <a id="chapter15_verse28"></a><b><sup>28 </sup></b>And the priest must make atonement for the soul who made a mistake by a sin unintentionally before Jehovah, so as to make atonement for it, and it must be forgiven him. <a id="chapter15_verse29"></a><b><sup>29 </sup></b>As to the native among the sons of Israel and the alien resident who is residing as an alien in their midst, there should prove to be one law for <span class="smcap">YOU </span>as respects doing something unintentionally.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter15_verse30"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>30 </sup>
    </b>“‘But the soul that does something deliberately, whether he is a native or an alien resident, he speaking abusively of Jehovah, in that case that soul must be cut off from among his people. <a id="chapter15_verse31"></a><b><sup>31 </sup></b>Because it is Jehovah’s word that he has despised and his commandment that he has broken, that soul should be cut off without fail. His own error is upon him.’”</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="page203"></a>
    <a id="chapter15_verse32"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>32 </sup>
    </b>While the sons of Israel were continuing in the wilderness, they once found a man collecting pieces of wood on the sabbath day. <a id="chapter15_verse33"></a><b><sup>33 </sup></b>Then those who found him collecting pieces of wood brought him up to Moses and Aaron and the whole assembly. <a id="chapter15_verse34"></a><b><sup>34 </sup></b>So they committed him into custody, because it had not been distinctly stated what should be done to him.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter15_verse35"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>35 </sup>
    </b>In time Jehovah said to Moses: “Without fail the man should be put to death, the whole assembly pelting him with stones outside the camp.” <a id="chapter15_verse36"></a><b><sup>36 </sup></b>Accordingly the whole assembly brought him forth outside the camp and pelted him with stones so that he died, just as Jehovah had commanded Moses.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter15_verse37"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>37 </sup>
    </b>And Jehovah went on to say this to Moses: <a id="chapter15_verse38"></a><b><sup>38 </sup></b>“Speak to the sons of Israel, and you must say to them that they must make for themselves fringed edges upon the skirts of their garments throughout their generations, and they must put a blue string above the fringed edge of the skirt, <a id="chapter15_verse39"></a><b><sup>39 </sup></b>‘And it must serve as a fringed edge for <span class="smcap">YOU</span>, and <span class="smcap">YOU </span>must see it and remember all the commandments of Jehovah and do them, and <span class="smcap">YOU </span>must not go about following <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>hearts and <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>eyes, which <span class="smcap">YOU </span>are following in immoral intercourse. <a id="chapter15_verse40"></a><b><sup>40 </sup></b>The purpose is that <span class="smcap">YOU </span>may remember and may certainly do all my commandments and indeed prove to be holy to <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>God. <a id="chapter15_verse41"></a><b><sup>41 </sup></b>I am Jehovah <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>God, who have brought <span class="smcap">YOU </span>out of the land of Egypt in order to prove myself <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>God. I am Jehovah <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>God.’”</p>
</book>