<book>
  <p class="w_biblebookname">Deuteronomy</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter4"></a>
    <a id="chapter4_verse1"></a>
    <span class="w_ch">
      <b>4 </b>
    </span>“And now, O Israel, listen to the regulations and the judicial decisions that I am teaching <span class="smcap">YOU </span>to do, in order that <span class="smcap">YOU </span>may live and may indeed go in and take possession of the land that Jehovah the God of <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>forefathers is giving <span class="smcap">YOU</span>. <a id="chapter4_verse2"></a><b><sup>2 </sup></b>Y<span class="smcap">OU </span>must not add to the word that I am commanding <span class="smcap">YOU</span>, neither must <span class="smcap">YOU </span>take away from it, so as to keep the commandments of Jehovah <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>God that I am commanding <span class="smcap">YOU</span>.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter4_verse3"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>3 </sup>
    </b>“Y<span class="smcap">OUR </span>own eyes are the ones that saw what Jehovah did in the case of the Ba′al of Pe′or, that every man who walked after the Ba′al of Pe′or was the one whom Jehovah your God annihilated from your midst. <a id="chapter4_verse4"></a><b><sup>4 </sup></b>But <span class="smcap">YOU </span>who are cleaving to Jehovah <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>God are all of <span class="smcap">YOU </span>alive today. <a id="chapter4_verse5"></a><b><sup>5 </sup></b>See, I have taught <span class="smcap">YOU </span>regulations and judicial decisions, just as Jehovah my God has commanded me, for <span class="smcap">YOU </span>to do that way in the midst of the land to which <span class="smcap">YOU </span>are going to take possession of it. <a id="chapter4_verse6"></a><b><sup>6 </sup></b>And <span class="smcap">YOU </span>must keep and do them, because this is wisdom on <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>part and understanding on <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>part before the eyes of the peoples who will hear of all these regulations, and they will certainly say, ‘This great nation is undoubtedly a wise and understanding people.’ <a id="chapter4_verse7"></a><b><sup>7 </sup></b>For what great nation is there that has gods near to it the way Jehovah our God is in all our calling upon him? <a id="chapter4_verse8"></a><b><sup>8 </sup></b>And what great nation is there that has righteous regulations and judicial decisions like all this law that I am putting before <span class="smcap">YOU </span>today?</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter4_verse9"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>9 </sup>
    </b>“Only watch out for yourself and take good care of your soul, that you may not forget the things that your eyes have seen and that they may not depart from your heart all the days of your life; and you must make them known to your sons and to your grandsons, <a id="chapter4_verse10"></a><b><sup>10 </sup></b>the day that you stood before Jehovah your God in Ho′reb, when Jehovah said to me, ‘Congregate the people together to me that I may let them hear my words, that they may learn to fear me all the days that they are alive on the soil and that they may teach their sons.’</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter4_verse11"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>11 </sup>
    </b>“So <span class="smcap">YOU </span>people came near and stood at the base of the mountain, and the mountain was burning with fire up to midheaven; there was darkness, cloud and thick gloom. <a id="chapter4_verse12"></a><b><sup>12 </sup></b>And Jehovah began to speak to <span class="smcap">YOU </span>out of the middle of the fire. The sound of words was what <span class="smcap">YOU </span>were hearing, but no form were <span class="smcap">YOU </span>seeing—nothing but a voice. <a id="chapter4_verse13"></a><b><sup>13 </sup></b>And he proceeded to state to <span class="smcap">YOU </span>his covenant, which he commanded <span class="smcap">YOU </span>to perform—the Ten Words, after which he wrote them upon two tablets of stone. <a id="chapter4_verse14"></a><b><sup>14 </sup></b>And it was I whom Jehovah commanded at that particular time to <a id="page242"></a>teach <span class="smcap">YOU </span>regulations and judicial decisions, for <span class="smcap">YOU </span>to do them in the land to which <span class="smcap">YOU </span>are passing over to take possession of it.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter4_verse15"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>15 </sup>
    </b>“And <span class="smcap">YOU </span>must take good care of <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>souls, because <span class="smcap">YOU </span>did not see any form on the day of Jehovah’s speaking to <span class="smcap">YOU </span>in Ho′reb out of the middle of the fire, <a id="chapter4_verse16"></a><b><sup>16 </sup></b>that <span class="smcap">YOU </span>may not act ruinously and may not really make for yourselves a carved image, the form of any symbol, the representation of male or female, <a id="chapter4_verse17"></a><b><sup>17 </sup></b>the representation of any beast that is in the earth, the representation of any winged bird that flies in the heavens, <a id="chapter4_verse18"></a><b><sup>18 </sup></b>the representation of anything moving on the ground, the representation of any fish that is in the waters under the earth; <a id="chapter4_verse19"></a><b><sup>19 </sup></b>and that you may not raise your eyes to the heavens and indeed see the sun and the moon and the stars, all the army of the heavens, and actually get seduced and bow down to them and serve them, which Jehovah your God has apportioned to all the peoples under the whole heavens. <a id="chapter4_verse20"></a><b><sup>20 </sup></b>But <span class="smcap">YOU </span>are the ones Jehovah took that he might bring <span class="smcap">YOU </span>out of the iron furnace, out of Egypt, to become a people of private ownership to him as at this day.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter4_verse21"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>21 </sup>
    </b>“And Jehovah got incensed at me on <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>account, so that he swore that I should not cross the Jordan or go into the good land that Jehovah your God is giving you as an inheritance. <a id="chapter4_verse22"></a><b><sup>22 </sup></b>For I am dying in this land. I am not crossing the Jordan, but <span class="smcap">YOU </span>are crossing, and <span class="smcap">YOU </span>must take possession of this good land. <a id="chapter4_verse23"></a><b><sup>23 </sup></b>Watch out for yourselves that <span class="smcap">YOU </span>may not forget the covenant of Jehovah <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>God that he concluded with <span class="smcap">YOU </span>and that <span class="smcap">YOU </span>do not make for yourselves a carved image, the form of anything about which Jehovah your God has commanded you. <a id="chapter4_verse24"></a><b><sup>24 </sup></b>For Jehovah your God is a consuming fire, a God exacting exclusive devotion.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter4_verse25"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>25 </sup>
    </b>“In case you become father to sons and grandsons and <span class="smcap">YOU </span>have resided a long time in the land and do act ruinously and do make a carved image, a form of anything, and do commit evil in the eyes of Jehovah your God so as to offend him, <a id="chapter4_verse26"></a><b><sup>26 </sup></b>I do take as witnesses against <span class="smcap">YOU </span>today the heavens and the earth, that <span class="smcap">YOU </span>will positively perish in a hurry from off the land to which <span class="smcap">YOU </span>are crossing the Jordan to take possession of it. Y<span class="smcap">OU </span>will not lengthen <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>days on it, because <span class="smcap">YOU </span>will positively be annihilated. <a id="chapter4_verse27"></a><b><sup>27 </sup></b>And Jehovah will certainly scatter <span class="smcap">YOU </span>among the peoples, and <span class="smcap">YOU </span>will indeed be let remain few in number among the nations to which Jehovah will drive <span class="smcap">YOU </span>away. <a id="chapter4_verse28"></a><b><sup>28 </sup></b>And there <span class="smcap">YOU </span>will have to serve gods, the product of the hands of man, wood and stone, which cannot see or hear or eat or smell.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter4_verse29"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>29 </sup>
    </b>“If <span class="smcap">YOU </span>do look for Jehovah your God from there, you will also certainly find him, because you will inquire for him with all your heart and with all your soul. <a id="chapter4_verse30"></a><b><sup>30 </sup></b>When you are in sore straits and all these words have found you out at the close of the days, then you will have to return to Jehovah your God and to listen to his voice. <a id="chapter4_verse31"></a><b><sup>31 </sup></b>For Jehovah your God is a merciful God. He will not desert you or bring you to ruin or forget the covenant of your forefathers that he swore to them.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter4_verse32"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>32 </sup>
    </b>“Now ask, please, concerning the former days that occurred before you, from the day that God created man on the earth and from one end of the <a id="page243"></a>heavens clear to the other end of the heavens, Was any great thing brought about like this or was anything heard like it? <a id="chapter4_verse33"></a><b><sup>33 </sup></b>Has any other people heard the voice of God speaking out of the middle of the fire the way you yourself have heard it, and kept on living? <a id="chapter4_verse34"></a><b><sup>34 </sup></b>Or did God attempt to come to take a nation to himself out of the midst of another nation with provings, with signs and with miracles and with war and with a strong hand and with an outstretched arm and with great fearsomeness like all that Jehovah <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>God has done for <span class="smcap">YOU </span>in Egypt before your eyes? <a id="chapter4_verse35"></a><b><sup>35 </sup></b>You—you have been shown, so as to know that Jehovah is the true God; there is no other besides him. <a id="chapter4_verse36"></a><b><sup>36 </sup></b>Out of the heavens he made you hear his voice so as to correct you; and upon the earth he made you see his great fire, and his words you heard from the middle of the fire.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter4_verse37"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>37 </sup>
    </b>“And yet you continue to live, because he loved your forefathers so that he chose their seed after them and brought you out of Egypt in his sight with his great power, <a id="chapter4_verse38"></a><b><sup>38 </sup></b>to drive away nations greater and mightier than you from before you, so as to bring you in, to give you their land as an inheritance as at this day. <a id="chapter4_verse39"></a><b><sup>39 </sup></b>And you well know today, and you must call back to your heart that Jehovah is the true God in the heavens above and on the earth beneath. There is no other. <a id="chapter4_verse40"></a><b><sup>40 </sup></b>And you must keep his regulations and his commandments that I am commanding you today, that it may go well with you and your sons after you, and in order that you may lengthen your days on the soil that Jehovah your God is giving you, always.”</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter4_verse41"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>41 </sup>
    </b>At that time Moses proceeded to set apart three cities on the side of the Jordan toward the rising of the sun, <a id="chapter4_verse42"></a><b><sup>42 </sup></b>for the manslayer to flee there who slays his fellow without knowing it, while he was not hating him formerly; and he must flee to one of these cities and live, <a id="chapter4_verse43"></a><b><sup>43 </sup></b>namely, Be′zer in the wilderness on the tableland for the Reu′ben·ites, and Ra′moth in Gil′e·ad for the Gad′ites, and Go′lan in Ba′shan for the Ma·nas′sites.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter4_verse44"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>44 </sup>
    </b>Now this is the law that Moses set before the sons of Israel. <a id="chapter4_verse45"></a><b><sup>45 </sup></b>These are the testimonies and the regulations and the judicial decisions that Moses spoke to the sons of Israel on their coming out of Egypt, <a id="chapter4_verse46"></a><b><sup>46 </sup></b>in the region of the Jordan in the valley in front of Beth-pe′or, in the land of Si′hon the king of the Am′or·ites, who was dwelling in Hesh′bon, whom Moses and the sons of Israel defeated on their coming out of Egypt. <a id="chapter4_verse47"></a><b><sup>47 </sup></b>And they went taking possession of his land and of the land of Og the king of Ba′shan, the two kings of the Am′or·ites who were in the region of the Jordan toward the rising of the sun, <a id="chapter4_verse48"></a><b><sup>48 </sup></b>from A·ro′er, which is on the bank of the torrent valley of Ar′non, up to Mount Si′on, that is to say, Her′mon, <a id="chapter4_verse49"></a><b><sup>49 </sup></b>and all the Ar′a·bah in the region of the Jordan toward the east, and as far as the sea of the Ar′a·bah at the base of the slopes of Pis′gah.</p>
</book>