<div>
  <p class="w_biblebookname">Deuteronomy</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter11"></a>
    <a id="chapter11_verse1"></a>
    <span class="w_ch">
      <b>11 </b>
    </span>“And you must love Jehovah your God and keep your obligation to him and his statutes and his judicial decisions and his commandments always. <a id="chapter11_verse2"></a><b><sup>2 </sup></b>And <span class="smcap">YOU </span>well know today (for I do not address <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>sons who have not known and who have not seen the discipline of Jehovah <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>God, his greatness, his strong hand and his outstretched arm, <a id="chapter11_verse3"></a><b><sup>3 </sup></b>nor his signs and his deeds that he did in the midst of Egypt to Phar′aoh the king of Egypt and to all his land; <a id="chapter11_verse4"></a><b><sup>4 </sup></b>nor what he did to the military forces of Egypt, to his horses and his war chariots against the faces of which he made the waters of the Red Sea overflow when they were chasing after them, and Jehovah proceeded to destroy them till this day; <a id="chapter11_verse5"></a><b><sup>5 </sup></b>nor what he has done to <span class="smcap">YOU </span>in the wilderness until <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>coming to this place; <a id="chapter11_verse6"></a><b><sup>6 </sup></b>nor what he did to Da′than and A·bi′ram the sons of E·li′ab the son of Reu′ben, when the earth opened its mouth and proceeded to swallow them up and their households and their tents and every existing thing that stepped after them in the midst of all Israel); <a id="chapter11_verse7"></a><b><sup>7 </sup></b>for <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>eyes were the ones seeing all the great deeds of Jehovah that he did.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter11_verse8"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>8 </sup>
    </b>“And <span class="smcap">YOU </span>must keep the whole commandment that I am commanding you today, in order that <span class="smcap">YOU </span>may grow strong and may indeed enter in and take possession of the land to which <span class="smcap">YOU </span>are crossing to take possession of it, <a id="chapter11_verse9"></a><b><sup>9 </sup></b>and in order that <span class="smcap">YOU </span>may lengthen <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>days on the soil that Jehovah swore to <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>forefathers to give to them and their seed, a land flowing with milk and honey.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter11_verse10"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>10 </sup>
    </b>“For the land to which you are going to take possession of it is not like the land of Egypt out of which <span class="smcap">YOU </span>came, where you used to sow your seed and you had to do irrigating with your foot, like a garden of vegetables. <a id="chapter11_verse11"></a><b><sup>11 </sup></b>But the land to which <span class="smcap">YOU </span>are crossing to take possession of it is a land of mountains and valley plains. Of the rain of the heavens it drinks water; <a id="chapter11_verse12"></a><b><sup>12 </sup></b>a land that Jehovah your God is caring for. The eyes of Jehovah your God are constantly upon it, from the beginning of the year to the close of the year.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter11_verse13"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>13 </sup>
    </b>“And it must occur that if <span class="smcap">YOU </span>will without fail obey my commandments that I am commanding <span class="smcap">YOU </span>today so as to love Jehovah <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>God and to serve him with all <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>heart and all <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>soul, <a id="chapter11_verse14"></a><b><sup>14 </sup></b>I also shall certainly give rain for <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>land at its appointed time, autumn rain and spring rain, and you will indeed gather your grain and your sweet wine and your oil. <a id="chapter11_verse15"></a><b><sup>15 </sup></b>And I shall certainly give vegetation in your field for your domestic animals, and you will indeed eat and be satisfied. <a id="chapter11_verse16"></a><b><sup>16 </sup></b>Watch out for yourselves for fear <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>heart may be enticed, and <span class="smcap">YOU </span>do turn aside and worship other gods and bow down to them, <a id="chapter11_verse17"></a><b><sup>17 </sup></b>and Jehovah’s anger does blaze against <span class="smcap">YOU</span>, and he does shut up the heavens so that no rain will occur and the <a id="page253"></a>ground will not give its produce and <span class="smcap">YOU </span>have to perish speedily from off the good land that Jehovah is giving <span class="smcap">YOU</span>.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter11_verse18"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>18 </sup>
    </b>“And <span class="smcap">YOU </span>must apply these words of mine to <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>heart and <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>soul and bind them as a sign upon <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>hand, and they must serve as a frontlet band between <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>eyes. <a id="chapter11_verse19"></a><b><sup>19 </sup></b>Y<span class="smcap">OU </span>must also teach them to <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>sons, so as to speak of them when you sit in your house and when you walk on the road and when you lie down and when you get up. <a id="chapter11_verse20"></a><b><sup>20 </sup></b>And you must write them upon the doorposts of your house and on your gates, <a id="chapter11_verse21"></a><b><sup>21 </sup></b>in order that <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>days and the days of <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>sons may be many on the soil that Jehovah swore to <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>forefathers to give to them, as the days of the heavens over the earth.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter11_verse22"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>22 </sup>
    </b>“For if <span class="smcap">YOU </span>strictly keep all this commandment that I am commanding <span class="smcap">YOU </span>so as to do it, to love Jehovah <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>God, to walk in all his ways and to cling to him, <a id="chapter11_verse23"></a><b><sup>23 </sup></b>Jehovah also must drive away all these nations on account of <span class="smcap">YOU</span>, and <span class="smcap">YOU </span>will certainly dispossess nations greater and more numerous than <span class="smcap">YOU </span>are. <a id="chapter11_verse24"></a><b><sup>24 </sup></b>Every place on which the sole of <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>foot will tread will become <span class="smcap">YOURS</span>. From the wilderness up to Leb′a·non, from the River, the river Eu·phra′tes, to the western sea <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>boundary will become. <a id="chapter11_verse25"></a><b><sup>25 </sup></b>No man will make a firm stand against <span class="smcap">YOU</span>. The dread of <span class="smcap">YOU </span>and the fear of <span class="smcap">YOU </span>Jehovah <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>God will put before the face of all the land on which <span class="smcap">YOU </span>will tread, just as he has promised <span class="smcap">YOU</span>.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter11_verse26"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>26 </sup>
    </b>“See, I am putting before <span class="smcap">YOU </span>today blessing and malediction: <a id="chapter11_verse27"></a><b><sup>27 </sup></b>the blessing, provided <span class="smcap">YOU </span>will obey the commandments of Jehovah <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>God that I am commanding <span class="smcap">YOU </span>today; <a id="chapter11_verse28"></a><b><sup>28 </sup></b>and the malediction, if <span class="smcap">YOU </span>will not obey the commandments of Jehovah <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>God and <span class="smcap">YOU </span>do turn aside from the way about which I am commanding <span class="smcap">YOU </span>today, so as to walk after other gods whom <span class="smcap">YOU </span>have not known.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter11_verse29"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>29 </sup>
    </b>“And it must occur that when Jehovah your God brings you into the land to which you are going to take possession of it, you must also give the blessing upon Mount Ger′i·zim and the malediction upon Mount E′bal. <a id="chapter11_verse30"></a><b><sup>30 </sup></b>Are they not on the side of the Jordan toward the direction of the sunset, in the land of the Ca′naan·ites dwelling in the Ar′a·bah, in front of Gil′gal, beside the big trees of Mo′reh? <a id="chapter11_verse31"></a><b><sup>31 </sup></b>For <span class="smcap">YOU </span>are crossing the Jordan to go in and take possession of the land that Jehovah <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>God is giving <span class="smcap">YOU</span>, and <span class="smcap">YOU </span>must take possession of it and dwell in it. <a id="chapter11_verse32"></a><b><sup>32 </sup></b>And <span class="smcap">YOU </span>must be careful to carry out all the regulations and the judicial decisions that I am putting before <span class="smcap">YOU </span>today.</p>
</div>