<book>
  <p class="w_biblebookname">Deuteronomy</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter29"></a>
    <a id="chapter29_verse1"></a>
    <span class="w_ch">
      <b>29 </b>
    </span>These are the words of the covenant that Jehovah commanded Moses to conclude with the sons of Israel in the land of Mo′ab aside from the covenant that he had concluded with them in Ho′reb.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter29_verse2"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>2 </sup>
    </b>And Moses proceeded to call all Israel and to say to them: “Y<span class="smcap">OU </span>were the ones seeing all that Jehovah did before <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>eyes in the land of Egypt to Phar′aoh and all his servants and all his land, <a id="chapter29_verse3"></a><b><sup>3 </sup></b>the great provings that your eyes saw, those great signs and miracles. <a id="chapter29_verse4"></a><b><sup>4 </sup></b>And yet Jehovah has not given <span class="smcap">YOU </span>a heart to know and eyes to see and ears to hear down to this day. <a id="chapter29_verse5"></a><b><sup>5 </sup></b>‘While I kept guiding <span class="smcap">YOU </span>forty years in the wilderness, <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>garments did not <a id="page277"></a>wear out upon <span class="smcap">YOU</span>, and your sandal did not wear out upon your foot. <a id="chapter29_verse6"></a><b><sup>6 </sup></b>Bread <span class="smcap">YOU </span>did not eat, and wine and intoxicating liquor <span class="smcap">YOU </span>did not drink, in order that <span class="smcap">YOU </span>might know that I am Jehovah <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>God.’ <a id="chapter29_verse7"></a><b><sup>7 </sup></b>Eventually <span class="smcap">YOU </span>came to this place, and Si′hon the king of Hesh′bon and Og the king of Ba′shan proceeded to come out to meet us in battle, but we defeated them. <a id="chapter29_verse8"></a><b><sup>8 </sup></b>After that we took their land and gave it as an inheritance to the Reu′ben·ites and the Gad′ites and half the tribe of the Ma·nas′sites. <a id="chapter29_verse9"></a><b><sup>9 </sup></b>So <span class="smcap">YOU </span>must keep the words of this covenant and do them, in order that <span class="smcap">YOU </span>may make everything <span class="smcap">YOU </span>will do turn out well.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter29_verse10"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>10 </sup>
    </b>“Y<span class="smcap">OU </span>are all of <span class="smcap">YOU </span>stationed today before Jehovah <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>God, the heads of <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>tribes, <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>older men and <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>officers, every man of Israel, <a id="chapter29_verse11"></a><b><sup>11 </sup></b><span class="smcap">YOUR </span>little ones, <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>wives, and your alien resident who is in the midst of your camp, from the gatherer of your wood to the drawer of your water, <a id="chapter29_verse12"></a><b><sup>12 </sup></b>in order for you to enter into the covenant of Jehovah your God and his oath, which Jehovah your God is concluding with you today; <a id="chapter29_verse13"></a><b><sup>13 </sup></b>for the purpose of establishing you today as his people and that he may prove himself your God, just as he has promised you and just as he has sworn to your forefathers Abraham, Isaac and Jacob.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter29_verse14"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>14 </sup>
    </b>“Now it is not with <span class="smcap">YOU </span>alone that I am concluding this covenant and this oath, <a id="chapter29_verse15"></a><b><sup>15 </sup></b>but it is with him who is here standing with us today before Jehovah our God and with those who are not here with us today; <a id="chapter29_verse16"></a><b><sup>16 </sup></b>(for <span class="smcap">YOU </span>yourselves well know how we dwelt in the land of Egypt and how we passed through the midst of the nations through whom <span class="smcap">YOU </span>passed. <a id="chapter29_verse17"></a><b><sup>17 </sup></b>And <span class="smcap">YOU </span>used to see their disgusting things and their dungy idols, wood and stone, silver and gold, that were with them;) <a id="chapter29_verse18"></a><b><sup>18 </sup></b>that there may not be among <span class="smcap">YOU </span>a man or a woman or a family or a tribe whose heart is turning today away from Jehovah our God to go and serve the gods of those nations; that there may not be among <span class="smcap">YOU </span>a root bearing the fruit of a poisonous plant and wormwood.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter29_verse19"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>19 </sup>
    </b>“And it must occur that when someone has heard the words of this oath, and he has blessed himself in his heart, saying, ‘I shall come to have peace, although I shall walk in the stubbornness of my heart,’ with the intention of sweeping away the well-watered one along with the thirsty one, <a id="chapter29_verse20"></a><b><sup>20 </sup></b>Jehovah will not want to forgive him, but then Jehovah’s anger and his ardor will smoke against that man, and all the oath written in this book will certainly settle down on him, and Jehovah will indeed wipe out his name from under the heavens. <a id="chapter29_verse21"></a><b><sup>21 </sup></b>So Jehovah will have to separate him for calamity from all the tribes of Israel in accord with all the oath of the covenant that is written in this book of the law.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter29_verse22"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>22 </sup>
    </b>“And the future generation, <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>sons who will rise up after <span class="smcap">YOU</span>, will be bound to say, also the foreigner who will come from a distant land, even when they have seen the plagues of that land and its maladies with which Jehovah has sickened it, <a id="chapter29_verse23"></a><b><sup>23 </sup></b>sulphur and salt and burning, so that its whole land will not be sown, nor sprout, nor will any vegetation spring up in it, like the overthrow of Sod′om and Go·mor′rah, Ad′mah and Ze·boi′im, which Jehovah overthrew in his anger and in his <a id="page278"></a>wrath; <a id="chapter29_verse24"></a><b><sup>24 </sup></b>yes, all the nations will be bound to say, ‘Why did Jehovah do like this to this land? Why the heat of this great anger?’ <a id="chapter29_verse25"></a><b><sup>25 </sup></b>Then they will have to say, ‘It was because they abandoned the covenant of Jehovah the God of their forefathers, which he concluded with them when he brought them out of the land of Egypt. <a id="chapter29_verse26"></a><b><sup>26 </sup></b>And they proceeded to go and serve other gods and to bow down to them, gods that they had not known and he had not apportioned to them. <a id="chapter29_verse27"></a><b><sup>27 </sup></b>Then Jehovah’s anger blazed against that land by bringing upon it the whole malediction written in this book. <a id="chapter29_verse28"></a><b><sup>28 </sup></b>Hence Jehovah uprooted them from off their soil in anger and rage and great indignation and threw them into another land as at this day.’</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter29_verse29"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>29 </sup>
    </b>“The things concealed belong to Jehovah our God, but the things revealed belong to us and to our sons to time indefinite, that we may carry out all the words of this law.</p>
</book>