<div>
  <p class="w_biblebookname">1 Samuel</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter2"></a>
    <a id="chapter2_verse1"></a>
    <span class="w_ch">
      <b>2 </b>
    </span>And Han′nah went on to pray and say:</p>
  <p class="sp">“My heart does exult in Jehovah,</p>
  <p class="sz">My horn is indeed exalted in Jehovah.</p>
  <p class="sp">My mouth is widened against my enemies,</p>
  <p class="sz">For I do rejoice in the salvation from you.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter2_verse2"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>2 </sup>
    </b>There is no one holy like Jehovah, for there is no one but you;</p>
  <p class="sz">And there is no rock like our God.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter2_verse3"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>3 </sup>
    </b>Do not <span class="smcap">YOU </span>people speak very haughtily so much,</p>
  <p class="sz">Let nothing go forth unrestrained from <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>mouth,</p>
  <p class="sp">
    <a id="page364"></a>For a God of knowledge Jehovah is,</p>
  <p class="sz">And by him deeds are rightly estimated.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter2_verse4"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>4 </sup>
    </b>The mighty men of the bow are filled with terror,</p>
  <p class="sz">But those that are stumbling do gird on vital energy.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter2_verse5"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>5 </sup>
    </b>The satisfied must hire themselves out for bread,</p>
  <p class="sz">But the hungry actually cease to hunger.</p>
  <p class="sp">Even the barren has given birth to seven,</p>
  <p class="sz">But she that was abundant in sons has faded away.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter2_verse6"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>6 </sup>
    </b>Jehovah is a Killer and a Preserver of life,</p>
  <p class="sz">A Bringer down to She′ol, and He brings up.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter2_verse7"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>7 </sup>
    </b>Jehovah is an Impoverisher and an Enricher,</p>
  <p class="sz">An Abaser, also an Exalter,</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter2_verse8"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>8 </sup>
    </b>A Raiser of a lowly one from the dust;</p>
  <p class="sz">From the ashpit he lifts up a poor one,</p>
  <p class="sz">To make them sit with nobles; and a throne of glory he gives to them as a possession.</p>
  <p class="sp">For to Jehovah belong earth’s supports,</p>
  <p class="sz">And he places upon them the productive land.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter2_verse9"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>9 </sup>
    </b>The feet of his loyal ones he guards;</p>
  <p class="sz">As for the wicked ones, they are silenced in darkness,</p>
  <p class="sz">For not by power does a man prove superior.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter2_verse10"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>10 </sup>
    </b>As for Jehovah, those contending against him will be terrified;</p>
  <p class="sz">Against them he will thunder in the heavens.</p>
  <p class="sz">Jehovah himself will judge the ends of the earth,</p>
  <p class="sp">That he may give strength to his king,</p>
  <p class="sz">That he may exalt the horn of his anointed one.”</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter2_verse11"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>11 </sup>
    </b>Then El·ka′nah went to Ra′mah to his house; and as for the boy, he became a minister of Jehovah before E′li the priest.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter2_verse12"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>12 </sup>
    </b>Now the sons of E′li were good-for-nothing men; they did not acknowledge Jehovah. <a id="chapter2_verse13"></a><b><sup>13 </sup></b>As for the due right of the priests from the people, whenever any man was offering a sacrifice, an attendant of the priest came with the three-pronged fork in his hand, just when the meat was boiling, <a id="chapter2_verse14"></a><b><sup>14 </sup></b>and made a thrust into the basin or the two-handled cooking pot or the caldron or the one-handled cooking pot. Anything that the fork might bring up the priest would take for himself. That is the way they would do in Shi′loh to all the Israelites coming there. <a id="chapter2_verse15"></a><b><sup>15 </sup></b>Also, before ever they could make the fat smoke, an attendant of the priest came and said to the man sacrificing: “Do give meat to roast for the priest so that he may receive from you, not boiled meat, but raw.” <a id="chapter2_verse16"></a><b><sup>16 </sup></b>When the man would say to him: “Let them be sure to make the fat smoke first of all. Then take for yourself just whatever your soul may crave,” he actually said: “No, but you should give it now; and, if not, I shall have to take it by force!” <a id="chapter2_verse17"></a><b><sup>17 </sup></b>And the sin of the attendants came to be very great before Jehovah; for the men treated the offering of Jehovah with disrespect.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter2_verse18"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>18 </sup>
    </b>And Samuel was ministering before Jehovah, as a boy, having a linen eph′od girded on. <a id="chapter2_verse19"></a><b><sup>19 </sup></b>Also, a little sleeveless coat his mother would make for him, and she brought it up to him from year to year when she came up with her husband to sacrifice the yearly sacrifice. <a id="page365"></a><a id="chapter2_verse20"></a><b><sup>20 </sup></b>And E′li blessed El·ka′nah and his wife and said: “May Jehovah appoint to you an offspring from this wife in place of the thing lent, that was lent to Jehovah.” And they went to their place. <a id="chapter2_verse21"></a><b><sup>21 </sup></b>Accordingly Jehovah turned his attention to Han′nah, so that she had pregnancy and gave birth to three sons and two daughters. And the boy Samuel continued growing up with Jehovah.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter2_verse22"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>22 </sup>
    </b>And E′li was very old, and he had heard of all that his sons kept doing to all Israel and how they would lie down with the women that were serving at the entrance of the tent of meeting. <a id="chapter2_verse23"></a><b><sup>23 </sup></b>And he used to say to them: “Why do <span class="smcap">YOU </span>keep doing things like these? For the things I am hearing about <span class="smcap">YOU </span>from all the people are bad. <a id="chapter2_verse24"></a><b><sup>24 </sup></b>No, my sons, because the report is not good that I am hearing, that the people of Jehovah are causing to circulate. <a id="chapter2_verse25"></a><b><sup>25 </sup></b>If a man should sin against a man, God will arbitrate for him; but if it is against Jehovah that a man should sin, who is there to pray for him?” But they would not listen to the voice of their father, because Jehovah was now pleased to put them to death. <a id="chapter2_verse26"></a><b><sup>26 </sup></b>All the while the boy Samuel was growing bigger and more likable both from Jehovah’s standpoint and from that of men.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter2_verse27"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>27 </sup>
    </b>And a man of God proceeded to come to E′li and say to him: “This is what Jehovah has said, ‘Did I not for a fact reveal myself to the house of your forefather while they happened to be in Egypt as slaves to the house of Phar′aoh? <a id="chapter2_verse28"></a><b><sup>28 </sup></b>And there was a choosing of him out of all the tribes of Israel for me, to act as priest and go up upon my altar to make sacrificial smoke billow up, to bear an eph′od before me, that I might give to the house of your forefather all the offerings made by fire of the sons of Israel. <a id="chapter2_verse29"></a><b><sup>29 </sup></b>Why do <span class="smcap">YOU </span>men keep kicking at my sacrifice and at my offering that I have commanded in my dwelling, and you keep honoring your sons more than me by fattening yourselves from the best of every offering of Israel my people?</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter2_verse30"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>30 </sup>
    </b>“‘That is why the utterance of Jehovah the God of Israel is: “I did indeed say, As for your house and the house of your forefather, they will walk before me to time indefinite.” But now the utterance of Jehovah is: “It is unthinkable, on my part, because those honoring me I shall honor, and those despising me will be of little account.” <a id="chapter2_verse31"></a><b><sup>31 </sup></b>Look! Days are coming when I shall certainly chop off your arm and the arm of the house of your forefather, so that there will not come to be an old man in your house. <a id="chapter2_verse32"></a><b><sup>32 </sup></b>And you will actually look upon an adversary in my dwelling amid all the good that is done to Israel; and never will there come to be an old man in your house. <a id="chapter2_verse33"></a><b><sup>33 </sup></b>And yet there is a man of yours that I shall not cut off from being at my altar so as to cause your eyes to fail and to make your soul pine away; but the greater number of your house will all die by the sword of men. <a id="chapter2_verse34"></a><b><sup>34 </sup></b>And this is the sign for you that will come to your two sons, Hoph′ni and Phin′e·has: On one day both of them will die. <a id="chapter2_verse35"></a><b><sup>35 </sup></b>And I shall certainly raise up for myself a faithful priest. In harmony with what is in my heart and in my soul he will do; and I shall certainly build for him a lasting house, and he will certainly walk before my anointed one always. <a id="chapter2_verse36"></a><b><sup>36 </sup></b>And it must <a id="page366"></a>occur that anyone left over in your house will come and bow down to him for the payment of money and a round loaf of bread, and will certainly say: “Attach me, please, to one of the priestly offices to eat a piece of bread.”’”</p>
</div>