<div>
  <p class="w_biblebookname">Job</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter14"></a>
    <a id="chapter14_verse1"></a>
    <span class="w_ch">
      <b>14 </b>
    </span>“Man, born of woman,</p>
  <p class="sz">Is short-lived and glutted with agitation.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter14_verse2"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>2 </sup>
    </b>Like a blossom he has come forth and is cut off,</p>
  <p class="sz">And he runs away like the shadow and does not keep existing.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter14_verse3"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>3 </sup>
    </b>Yes, upon this one you have opened your eye,</p>
  <p class="sz">And me you bring into judgment with you.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter14_verse4"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>4 </sup>
    </b>Who can produce someone clean out of someone unclean?</p>
  <p class="sz">There is not one.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter14_verse5"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>5 </sup>
    </b>If his days are decided,</p>
  <p class="sz">The number of his months is with you;</p>
  <p class="sz">A decree for him you have made that he may not go beyond.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter14_verse6"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>6 </sup>
    </b>Turn your gaze from upon him that he may have rest,</p>
  <p class="sz">Until he finds pleasure as a hired laborer does in his day.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter14_verse7"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>7 </sup>
    </b>For there exists hope for even a tree.</p>
  <p class="sz">If it gets cut down, it will even sprout again,</p>
  <p class="sz">And its own twig will not cease to be.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter14_verse8"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>8 </sup>
    </b>If its root grows old in the earth</p>
  <p class="sz">And in the dust its stump dies,</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter14_verse9"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>9 </sup>
    </b>At the scent of water it will sprout</p>
  <p class="sz">And it will certainly produce a bough like a new plant.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter14_verse10"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>10 </sup>
    </b>But an able-bodied man dies and lies vanquished;</p>
  <p class="sz">And an earthling man expires, and where is he?</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter14_verse11"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>11 </sup>
    </b>Waters do disappear from a sea,</p>
  <p class="sz">And a river itself drains off and dries up.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter14_verse12"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>12 </sup>
    </b>Man also has to lie down and does not get up.</p>
  <p class="sz">Until heaven is no more they will not wake up,</p>
  <p class="sz">Nor will they be aroused from their sleep.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter14_verse13"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>13 </sup>
    </b>O that in She′ol you would conceal me,</p>
  <p class="sz">That you would keep me secret until your anger turns back,</p>
  <p class="sz">That you would set a time limit for me and remember me!</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter14_verse14"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>14 </sup>
    </b>If an able-bodied man dies can he live again?</p>
  <p class="sz">All the days of my compulsory labor I shall wait,</p>
  <p class="sz">Until my relief comes.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter14_verse15"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>15 </sup>
    </b>You will call, and I myself shall answer you.</p>
  <p class="sz">For the work of your hands you will have a yearning.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter14_verse16"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>16 </sup>
    </b>For now you keep counting my very steps;</p>
  <p class="sz">You watch for nothing but my sin.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter14_verse17"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>17 </sup>
    </b>Sealed up in a bag is my revolt,</p>
  <p class="sz">And you apply glue over my error.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter14_verse18"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>18 </sup>
    </b>However, a mountain itself, falling, will fade away,</p>
  <p class="sz">And even a rock will be moved away from its place.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter14_verse19"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>19 </sup>
    </b>Water certainly rubs away even stones;</p>
  <p class="sz">Its outpouring washes off earth’s dust.</p>
  <p class="sz">So you have destroyed the very hope of mortal man.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="page684"></a>
    <a id="chapter14_verse20"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>20 </sup>
    </b>You overpower him forever so that he goes away;</p>
  <p class="sz">You are disfiguring his face so that you send him away.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter14_verse21"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>21 </sup>
    </b>His sons get honored, but he does not know it;</p>
  <p class="sz">And they become insignificant, but he does not consider them.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter14_verse22"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>22 </sup>
    </b>Only his own flesh while upon him will keep aching,</p>
  <p class="sz">And his own soul while within him will keep mourning.”</p>
</div>