<div>
  <p class="w_biblebookname">Job</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="page713"></a>
    <a id="chapter41"></a>
    <a id="chapter41_verse1"></a>
    <span class="w_ch">
      <b>41 </b>
    </span>“Can you draw out Le·vi′a·than with a fishhook,</p>
  <p class="sz">Or with a rope can you hold down its tongue?</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter41_verse2"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>2 </sup>
    </b>Can you put a rush in its nostrils,</p>
  <p class="sz">Or with a thorn can you bore its jaws?</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter41_verse3"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>3 </sup>
    </b>Will it make many entreaties to you,</p>
  <p class="sz">Or will it say soft words to you?</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter41_verse4"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>4 </sup>
    </b>Will it conclude a covenant with you,</p>
  <p class="sz">That you may take it as a slave to time indefinite?</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter41_verse5"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>5 </sup>
    </b>Will you play with it as with a bird,</p>
  <p class="sz">Or will you tie it for your young girls?</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter41_verse6"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>6 </sup>
    </b>Will partners barter for it?</p>
  <p class="sz">Will they divide it up among tradesmen?</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter41_verse7"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>7 </sup>
    </b>Will you fill its skin with harpoons,</p>
  <p class="sz">Or its head with fish spears?</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter41_verse8"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>8 </sup>
    </b>Put your hand upon it.</p>
  <p class="sz">Remember the battle. Do not do it again.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter41_verse9"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>9 </sup>
    </b>Look! One’s expectation about it will certainly be disappointed.</p>
  <p class="sz">One will also be hurled down at the mere sight of it.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter41_verse10"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>10 </sup>
    </b>None is so audacious that he should stir it up.</p>
  <p class="sz">And who is it that can hold his ground before me?</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter41_verse11"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>11 </sup>
    </b>Who has given me something first, that I ought to reward him?</p>
  <p class="sz">Under the whole heavens it is mine.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter41_verse12"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>12 </sup>
    </b>I shall not keep silent about its parts</p>
  <p class="sz">Or the matter of its mightiness and the grace of its proportions.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter41_verse13"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>13 </sup>
    </b>Who has uncovered the face of its clothing?</p>
  <p class="sz">Into its double jaw who will enter?</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter41_verse14"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>14 </sup>
    </b>The doors of its face who has opened?</p>
  <p class="sz">Its teeth round about are frightful.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter41_verse15"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>15 </sup>
    </b>Furrows of scales are its haughtiness,</p>
  <p class="sz">Closed as with a tight seal.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter41_verse16"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>16 </sup>
    </b>One to the other they fit closely,</p>
  <p class="sz">And not even air can come in between them.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter41_verse17"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>17 </sup>
    </b>Each one to the other they are stuck together;</p>
  <p class="sz">They grasp one another and cannot be separated.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter41_verse18"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>18 </sup>
    </b>Its very sneezings flash forth light,</p>
  <p class="sz">And its eyes are like the beams of dawn.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter41_verse19"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>19 </sup>
    </b>Out of its mouth there go lightning flashes,</p>
  <p class="sz">Even sparks of fire make their escape.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter41_verse20"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>20 </sup>
    </b>Out of its nostrils smoke goes forth,</p>
  <p class="sz">Like a furnace set aflame even with rushes.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter41_verse21"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>21 </sup>
    </b>Its soul itself sets coals ablaze,</p>
  <p class="sz">And even a flame goes forth out of its mouth.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter41_verse22"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>22 </sup>
    </b>In its neck lodges strength,</p>
  <p class="sz">And before it despair leaps.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter41_verse23"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>23 </sup>
    </b>The folds of its flesh do cling together;</p>
  <p class="sz">They are as a casting upon it, immovable.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter41_verse24"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>24 </sup>
    </b>Its heart is cast like stone,</p>
  <p class="sz">Yes, cast like a lower millstone.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter41_verse25"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>25 </sup>
    </b>Due to its rising up the strong get frightened;</p>
  <p class="sz">Due to consternation they get bewildered.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter41_verse26"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>26 </sup>
    </b>Overtaking it, the sword itself does not prove equal,</p>
  <p class="sz">Nor spear, dart or arrowhead.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter41_verse27"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>27 </sup>
    </b>It regards iron as mere straw,</p>
  <p class="sz">Copper as mere rotten wood.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter41_verse28"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>28 </sup>
    </b>An arrow does not chase it away;</p>
  <p class="sz">The slingstones have been changed for it into mere stubble.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="page714"></a>
    <a id="chapter41_verse29"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>29 </sup>
    </b>A club has been regarded by it as mere stubble,</p>
  <p class="sz">And it laughs at the rattling of a javelin.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter41_verse30"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>30 </sup>
    </b>As pointed earthenware fragments are its underparts;</p>
  <p class="sz">It spreads out a threshing instrument upon the mire.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter41_verse31"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>31 </sup>
    </b>It causes the depths to boil just like a pot;</p>
  <p class="sz">It makes the very sea like an ointment pot.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter41_verse32"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>32 </sup>
    </b>Behind itself it makes a pathway shine;</p>
  <p class="sz">One would regard the watery deep as gray-headedness.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter41_verse33"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>33 </sup>
    </b>Upon the dust there is not the like of it,</p>
  <p class="sz">The one made to be without terror.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter41_verse34"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>34 </sup>
    </b>Everything high it sees.</p>
  <p class="sz">It is king over all majestic wild beasts.”</p>
</div>