<book>
  <p class="w_biblebookname">Job</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter21"></a>
    <a id="chapter21_verse1"></a>
    <span class="w_ch">
      <b>21 </b>
    </span>And Job proceeded to answer and say:</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter21_verse2"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>2 </sup>
    </b>“Listen, <span class="smcap">YOU </span>men, attentively to my word,</p>
  <p class="sz">And let this become <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>consolation.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter21_verse3"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>3 </sup>
    </b>Put up with me, and I myself shall speak;</p>
  <p class="sz">And after my speaking you may each deride.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter21_verse4"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>4 </sup>
    </b>As for me, is my concern expressed to man?</p>
  <p class="sz">Or why is it that my spirit does not get impatient?</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter21_verse5"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>5 </sup>
    </b>Turn <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>faces to me and stare in amazement,</p>
  <p class="sz">And put <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>hand upon <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>mouth.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter21_verse6"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>6 </sup>
    </b>And if I have remembered, I have also become disturbed,</p>
  <p class="sz">And shuddering has taken hold of my flesh.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter21_verse7"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>7 </sup>
    </b>Why is it that the wicked themselves keep living,</p>
  <p class="sz">Have grown old, also have become superior in wealth?</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter21_verse8"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>8 </sup>
    </b>Their offspring are firmly established with them in their sight,</p>
  <p class="sz">And their descendants before their eyes.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter21_verse9"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>9 </sup>
    </b>Their houses are peace itself, free from dread,</p>
  <p class="sz">And the rod of God is not upon them.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter21_verse10"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>10 </sup>
    </b>His own bull actually impregnates, and it does not waste semen;</p>
  <p class="sz">His cow brings forth and suffers no abortion.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter21_verse11"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>11 </sup>
    </b>They keep sending out their young boys just like a flock,</p>
  <p class="sz">And their own male children go skipping about.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="page691"></a>
    <a id="chapter21_verse12"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>12 </sup>
    </b>They continue raising their voice with the tambourine and harp,</p>
  <p class="sz">And keep rejoicing at the sound of the pipe.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter21_verse13"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>13 </sup>
    </b>They spend their days in good times,</p>
  <p class="sz">And in a moment down to She′ol they descend.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter21_verse14"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>14 </sup>
    </b>And they say to the true God, ‘Turn away from us!</p>
  <p class="sz">And in the knowledge of your ways we have found no delight.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter21_verse15"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>15 </sup>
    </b>What does the Almighty amount to, that we should serve him,</p>
  <p class="sz">And how do we benefit ourselves in that we have come in touch with him?’</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter21_verse16"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>16 </sup>
    </b>Look! Their well-being is not in their own power.</p>
  <p class="sz">The very counsel of wicked ones has kept far from me.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter21_verse17"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>17 </sup>
    </b>How many times is the lamp of the wicked ones extinguished,</p>
  <p class="sz">And how many times does their disaster come upon them?</p>
  <p class="sb">How many times in his anger does he apportion destruction?</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter21_verse18"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>18 </sup>
    </b>Do they become like straw before a wind,</p>
  <p class="sz">And like chaff that a storm wind has stolen away?</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter21_verse19"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>19 </sup>
    </b>God himself will store up one’s hurtfulness for one’s own sons;</p>
  <p class="sz">He will reward him that he may know it.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter21_verse20"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>20 </sup>
    </b>His eyes will see his decay,</p>
  <p class="sz">And from the rage of the Almighty he will drink.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter21_verse21"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>21 </sup>
    </b>For what will his delight be in his house after him,</p>
  <p class="sz">When the number of his months will really be cut in two?</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter21_verse22"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>22 </sup>
    </b>Will he teach knowledge even to God,</p>
  <p class="sz">When that One himself judges high ones?</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter21_verse23"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>23 </sup>
    </b>This very one will die during his full self-sufficiency,</p>
  <p class="sz">When he is altogether carefree and at ease;</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter21_verse24"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>24 </sup>
    </b>When his own thighs have become full of fat</p>
  <p class="sz">And the very marrow of his bones is being kept moist.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter21_verse25"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>25 </sup>
    </b>And this other one will die with a bitter soul</p>
  <p class="sz">When he has not eaten of good things.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter21_verse26"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>26 </sup>
    </b>Together in the dust they will lie down</p>
  <p class="sz">And maggots themselves will form a cover over them.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter21_verse27"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>27 </sup>
    </b>Look! I well know the thoughts of <span class="smcap">YOU </span>men</p>
  <p class="sz">And the schemes with which <span class="smcap">YOU </span>would act violently against me.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter21_verse28"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>28 </sup>
    </b>For <span class="smcap">YOU </span>say, ‘Where is the house of the noble one,</p>
  <p class="sz">And where is the tent, the tabernacles of wicked ones?’</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter21_verse29"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>29 </sup>
    </b>Have <span class="smcap">YOU </span>not asked those traveling over the roads?</p>
  <p class="sz">And do <span class="smcap">YOU </span>not carefully inspect their very signs,</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter21_verse30"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>30 </sup>
    </b>That at the day of disaster an evil one is spared,</p>
  <p class="sz">At the day of fury he is delivered?</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter21_verse31"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>31 </sup>
    </b>Who will tell him of his way to his very face?</p>
  <p class="sz">And for what he himself has done who will reward him?</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter21_verse32"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>32 </sup>
    </b>As for him, to the graveyard he will be brought,</p>
  <p class="sz">And over a tomb a vigil will be kept.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter21_verse33"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>33 </sup>
    </b>To him the clods of earth of a torrent valley will certainly become sweet,</p>
  <p class="sz">And after him he will drag all mankind,</p>
  <p class="sl">And those before him were without number.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter21_verse34"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>34 </sup>
    </b>So how vainly <span class="smcap">YOU </span>men try to comfort me,</p>
  <p class="sz">And <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>very replies do remain as unfaithfulness!”</p>
</book>