<div>
  <p class="w_biblebookname">Job</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter38"></a>
    <a id="chapter38_verse1"></a>
    <span class="w_ch">
      <b>38 </b>
    </span>And Jehovah proceeded to answer Job out of the windstorm and say:</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter38_verse2"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>2 </sup>
    </b>“Who is this that is obscuring counsel</p>
  <p class="sz">By words without knowledge?</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter38_verse3"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>3 </sup>
    </b>Gird up your loins, please, like an able-bodied man,</p>
  <p class="sz">And let me question you, and you inform me.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter38_verse4"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>4 </sup>
    </b>Where did you happen to be when I founded the earth?</p>
  <p class="sz">Tell me, if you do know understanding.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter38_verse5"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>5 </sup>
    </b>Who set its measurements, in case you know,</p>
  <p class="sz">Or who stretched out upon it the measuring line?</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter38_verse6"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>6 </sup>
    </b>Into what have its socket pedestals been sunk down,</p>
  <p class="sz">Or who laid its cornerstone,</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter38_verse7"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>7 </sup>
    </b>When the morning stars joyfully cried out together,</p>
  <p class="sz">And all the sons of God began shouting in applause?</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter38_verse8"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>8 </sup>
    </b>And who barricaded the sea with doors,</p>
  <p class="sz">Which began to go forth as when it burst out from the womb;</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter38_verse9"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>9 </sup>
    </b>When I put the cloud as its garment</p>
  <p class="sz">And thick gloom as its swaddling band,</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter38_verse10"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>10 </sup>
    </b>And I proceeded to break up my regulation upon it</p>
  <p class="sz">And to set a bar and doors,</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter38_verse11"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>11 </sup>
    </b>And I went on to say, ‘This far you may come, and no farther;</p>
  <p class="sz">And here your proud waves are limited’?</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter38_verse12"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>12 </sup>
    </b>Was it from your days onward that you commanded the morning?</p>
  <p class="sz">Did you cause the dawn to know its place,</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter38_verse13"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>13 </sup>
    </b>To take hold on the extremities of the earth,</p>
  <p class="sz">That the wicked ones might be shaken out from it?</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter38_verse14"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>14 </sup>
    </b>It transforms itself like clay under a seal,</p>
  <p class="sz">And things take their station as in clothing.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter38_verse15"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>15 </sup>
    </b>And from the wicked ones their light is held back,</p>
  <p class="sz">And the high arm itself gets broken.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter38_verse16"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>16 </sup>
    </b>Have you come to the sources of the sea,</p>
  <p class="sz">Or in search of the watery deep have you walked about?</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter38_verse17"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>17 </sup>
    </b>Have the gates of death been uncovered to you,</p>
  <p class="sz">Or the gates of deep shadow can you see?</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter38_verse18"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>18 </sup>
    </b>Have you intelligently considered the broad spaces of the earth?</p>
  <p class="sz">Tell, if you have come to know it all.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter38_verse19"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>19 </sup>
    </b>Where, now, is the way to where light resides?</p>
  <p class="sz">As for darkness, where, now, is its place,</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter38_verse20"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>20 </sup>
    </b>That you should take it to its boundary</p>
  <p class="sz">And that you should understand the roadways to its house?</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter38_verse21"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>21 </sup>
    </b>Have you come to know because at that time you were being born,</p>
  <p class="sz">And because in number your days are many?</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter38_verse22"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>22 </sup>
    </b>Have you entered into the storehouses of the snow,</p>
  <p class="sz">Or do you see even the storehouses of the hail,</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter38_verse23"></a>
    <a id="page710"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>23 </sup>
    </b>Which I have kept back for the time of distress,</p>
  <p class="sz">For the day of fight and war?</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter38_verse24"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>24 </sup>
    </b>Where, now, is the way by which the light distributes itself,</p>
  <p class="sz">And the east wind scatters about upon the earth?</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter38_verse25"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>25 </sup>
    </b>Who has divided a channel for the flood</p>
  <p class="sz">And a way for the thunderous storm cloud,</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter38_verse26"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>26 </sup>
    </b>To make it rain upon the land where there is no man,</p>
  <p class="sz">Upon the wilderness in which there is no earthling man,</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter38_verse27"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>27 </sup>
    </b>To satisfy storm-stricken and desolate places</p>
  <p class="sz">And to cause the growth of grass to sprout?</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter38_verse28"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>28 </sup>
    </b>Does there exist a father for the rain,</p>
  <p class="sz">Or who gave birth to the dewdrops?</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter38_verse29"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>29 </sup>
    </b>Out of whose belly does the ice actually come forth,</p>
  <p class="sz">And as for the hoarfrost of heaven, who indeed brings it to birth?</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter38_verse30"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>30 </sup>
    </b>The very waters keep themselves hidden as by stone,</p>
  <p class="sz">And the surface of the watery deep makes itself compact.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter38_verse31"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>31 </sup>
    </b>Can you tie fast the bonds of the Ki′mah constellation,</p>
  <p class="sz">Or can you loosen the very cords of the Ke′sil constellation?</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter38_verse32"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>32 </sup>
    </b>Can you bring forth the Maz′za·roth constellation in its appointed time?</p>
  <p class="sz">And as for the Ash constellation alongside its sons, can you conduct them?</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter38_verse33"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>33 </sup>
    </b>Have you come to know the statutes of the heavens,</p>
  <p class="sz">Or could you put its authority in the earth?</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter38_verse34"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>34 </sup>
    </b>Can you raise your voice even to the cloud,</p>
  <p class="sz">So that a heaving mass of water itself may cover you?</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter38_verse35"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>35 </sup>
    </b>Can you send forth lightnings that they may go</p>
  <p class="sz">And say to you, ‘Here we are!’?</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter38_verse36"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>36 </sup>
    </b>Who put wisdom in the cloud layers,</p>
  <p class="sz">Or who gave understanding to the sky phenomenon?</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter38_verse37"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>37 </sup>
    </b>Who can exactly number the clouds in wisdom,</p>
  <p class="sz">Or the water jars of heaven—who can tip them over,</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter38_verse38"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>38 </sup>
    </b>When the dust pours out as into a molten mass,</p>
  <p class="sz">And the clods of earth themselves get stuck together?</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter38_verse39"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>39 </sup>
    </b>Can you hunt prey for a lion itself</p>
  <p class="sz">And can you satisfy the lively appetite of young lions,</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter38_verse40"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>40 </sup>
    </b>When they crouch in the hiding places,</p>
  <p class="sz">Or keep lying in the covert for an ambush?</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter38_verse41"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>41 </sup>
    </b>Who prepares for the raven its food</p>
  <p class="sz">When its own young ones cry to God for help,</p>
  <p class="sz">When they keep wandering about because there is nothing to eat?</p>
</div>