<book>
  <p class="w_biblebookname">Job</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="page692"></a>
    <a id="chapter22"></a>
    <a id="chapter22_verse1"></a>
    <span class="w_ch">
      <b>22 </b>
    </span>And El′i·phaz the Te′man·ite proceeded to answer and say:</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter22_verse2"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>2 </sup>
    </b>“Can an able-bodied man be of use to God himself,</p>
  <p class="sz">That anyone having insight should be of use toward him?</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter22_verse3"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>3 </sup>
    </b>Does the Almighty have any delight in that you are righteous,</p>
  <p class="sz">Or any gain in that you make your way blameless?</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter22_verse4"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>4 </sup>
    </b>For your reverence will he reprove you,</p>
  <p class="sz">Will he come with you into the judgment?</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter22_verse5"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>5 </sup>
    </b>Is not your own badness too much already,</p>
  <p class="sz">And will there be no end to your errors?</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter22_verse6"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>6 </sup>
    </b>For you seize a pledge from your brothers without cause,</p>
  <p class="sz">And you strip off even the garments of naked people.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter22_verse7"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>7 </sup>
    </b>You do not give the tired one a drink of water,</p>
  <p class="sz">And from the hungry one you hold back bread.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter22_verse8"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>8 </sup>
    </b>As for a man of strength, the land is his,</p>
  <p class="sz">And one who is treated with partiality himself dwells in it.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter22_verse9"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>9 </sup>
    </b>Widows you have sent away empty-handed,</p>
  <p class="sz">And the arms of fatherless boys are crushed.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter22_verse10"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>10 </sup>
    </b>That is why bird traps are all around you,</p>
  <p class="sz">And sudden dread disturbs you;</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter22_verse11"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>11 </sup>
    </b>Or darkness, so that you cannot see,</p>
  <p class="sz">And a heaving mass of water itself covers you.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter22_verse12"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>12 </sup>
    </b>Is not God the height of heaven?</p>
  <p class="sz">Also see the sum total of the stars, that they are high.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter22_verse13"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>13 </sup>
    </b>And yet you have said: ‘What does God really know?</p>
  <p class="sz">Through thick gloom can he judge?</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter22_verse14"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>14 </sup>
    </b>Clouds are a concealment place for him so that he does not see,</p>
  <p class="sz">And on the vault of heaven he walks about.’</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter22_verse15"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>15 </sup>
    </b>Will you keep to the very way of long ago</p>
  <p class="sz">That hurtful men have trodden,</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter22_verse16"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>16 </sup>
    </b>Men who have been snatched away before their time,</p>
  <p class="sz">Whose foundation is poured away just as a river,</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter22_verse17"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>17 </sup>
    </b>Who are saying to the true God: ‘Turn away from us!</p>
  <p class="sz">And what can the Almighty accomplish against us?’</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter22_verse18"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>18 </sup>
    </b>Yet he himself has filled their houses with good things;</p>
  <p class="sz">And the very counsel of wicked ones has kept far from me.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter22_verse19"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>19 </sup>
    </b>The righteous ones will see and rejoice,</p>
  <p class="sz">And the innocent one himself will hold them in derision:</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter22_verse20"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>20 </sup>
    </b>‘Truly our antagonists have been effaced;</p>
  <p class="sz">And what is left of them a fire will certainly eat up.’</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter22_verse21"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>21 </sup>
    </b>Acquaint yourself, please, with him, and keep peace;</p>
  <p class="sz">Thereby good things will come to you.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter22_verse22"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>22 </sup>
    </b>Take, please, the law from his own mouth,</p>
  <p class="sz">And put his sayings in your heart.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter22_verse23"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>23 </sup>
    </b>If you return to the Almighty, you will be built up;</p>
  <p class="sz">If you will keep unrighteousness far from your tent,</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter22_verse24"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>24 </sup>
    </b>And if there is a placing of precious ore in the dust</p>
  <p class="sz">And gold of O′phir in the rock of torrent valleys,</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter22_verse25"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>25 </sup>
    </b>The Almighty also will indeed <a id="page693"></a>become your precious ores,</p>
  <p class="sz">And silver, the choicest, to you.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter22_verse26"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>26 </sup>
    </b>For then in the Almighty you will find your exquisite delight,</p>
  <p class="sz">And you will raise your face to God himself.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter22_verse27"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>27 </sup>
    </b>You will make entreaty to him, and he will hear you;</p>
  <p class="sz">And your vows you will pay.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter22_verse28"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>28 </sup>
    </b>And you will decide on something, and it will stand for you;</p>
  <p class="sz">And upon your ways light will certainly shine.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter22_verse29"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>29 </sup>
    </b>For there must be a humiliation when you speak arrogantly;</p>
  <p class="sz">But one with downcast eyes he will save.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter22_verse30"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>30 </sup>
    </b>He will rescue an innocent man,</p>
  <p class="sz">And you will certainly be rescued for the cleanness of your hands.”</p>
</book>