<div>
  <p class="w_biblebookname">Job</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter4"></a>
    <a id="chapter4_verse1"></a>
    <span class="w_ch">
      <b>4 </b>
    </span>And El′i·phaz the Te′man·ite proceeded to reply and say:</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter4_verse2"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>2 </sup>
    </b>“If one does try out a word to you, will you become weary?</p>
  <p class="sz">But to put a restraint on words who is able?</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter4_verse3"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>3 </sup>
    </b>Look! You have corrected many,</p>
  <p class="sz">And the weak hands you used to strengthen.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter4_verse4"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>4 </sup>
    </b>Anyone stumbling, your words would raise up;</p>
  <p class="sz">And knees giving way you would make firm.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter4_verse5"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>5 </sup>
    </b>But this time it comes to you, and you become weary;</p>
  <p class="sz">It touches even you, and you get disturbed.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter4_verse6"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>6 </sup>
    </b>Is not your reverence the basis of your confidence?</p>
  <p class="sz">Is not your hope even the integrity of your ways?</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter4_verse7"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>7 </sup>
    </b>Remember, please: Who that is innocent has ever perished?</p>
  <p class="sz">And where have the upright ever been effaced?</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter4_verse8"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>8 </sup>
    </b>According to what I have seen, those devising what is hurtful</p>
  <p class="sz">And those sowing trouble will themselves reap it.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter4_verse9"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>9 </sup>
    </b>Through the breath of God they perish,</p>
  <p class="sz">And through the spirit of his anger they come to an end.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter4_verse10"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>10 </sup>
    </b>There is the roaring of a lion, and the voice of a young lion,</p>
  <p class="sz">But the teeth of maned young lions do get broken down.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="page673"></a>
    <a id="chapter4_verse11"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>11 </sup>
    </b>A lion is perishing from there being no prey,</p>
  <p class="sz">And the cubs of a lion are separated from one another.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter4_verse12"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>12 </sup>
    </b>Now to me a word was stealthily brought,</p>
  <p class="sz">And my ear proceeded to get a whisper of it,</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter4_verse13"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>13 </sup>
    </b>In disquieting thoughts from visions of the night,</p>
  <p class="sz">When deep sleep falls upon men.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter4_verse14"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>14 </sup>
    </b>A dread came over me, and a trembling,</p>
  <p class="sz">And the multitude of my bones it filled with dread.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter4_verse15"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>15 </sup>
    </b>And a spirit itself went passing over my face;</p>
  <p class="sz">The hair of my flesh began to bristle.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter4_verse16"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>16 </sup>
    </b>It began to stand still,</p>
  <p class="sz">But I did not recognize its appearance;</p>
  <p class="sp">A form was in front of my eyes;</p>
  <p class="sz">There was a calm, and I now heard a voice:</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter4_verse17"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>17 </sup>
    </b>‘Mortal man—can he be more just than God himself?</p>
  <p class="sz">Or can able-bodied man be cleaner than his own Maker?’</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter4_verse18"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>18 </sup>
    </b>Look! In his servants he has no faith,</p>
  <p class="sz">And his messengers he charges with faultiness.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter4_verse19"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>19 </sup>
    </b>How much more so with those dwelling in houses of clay,</p>
  <p class="sz">Whose foundation is in the dust!</p>
  <p class="sz">One crushes them more quickly than a moth.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter4_verse20"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>20 </sup>
    </b>From morning to evening they are crushed to pieces;</p>
  <p class="sz">Without anyone’s taking it to heart they perish forever.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter4_verse21"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>21 </sup>
    </b>Has not their tent cord within them been pulled out?</p>
  <p class="sz">They die for lack of wisdom.</p>
</div>