<book>
  <p class="w_biblebookname">Job</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter34"></a>
    <a id="chapter34_verse1"></a>
    <span class="w_ch">
      <b>34 </b>
    </span>And E·li′hu continued to answer and say:</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter34_verse2"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>2 </sup>
    </b>“Listen, <span class="smcap">YOU </span>wise ones, to my words;</p>
  <p class="sz">And <span class="smcap">YOU </span>who know, give ear to me.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter34_verse3"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>3 </sup>
    </b>For the ear itself makes a test of words,</p>
  <p class="sz">Just as the palate tastes when eating.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter34_verse4"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>4 </sup>
    </b>Judgment let us choose for ourselves;</p>
  <p class="sz">Let us know among ourselves what is good.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter34_verse5"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>5 </sup>
    </b>For Job has said, ‘I certainly am in the right,</p>
  <p class="sz">But God himself has turned aside the judgment of me.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter34_verse6"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>6 </sup>
    </b>Against my own judgment do I tell lies?</p>
  <p class="sz">My severe wound is incurable though there is no transgression.’</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter34_verse7"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>7 </sup>
    </b>What able-bodied man is like Job,</p>
  <p class="sz">Who drinks up derision like water?</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter34_verse8"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>8 </sup>
    </b>And he is certainly on his way to companionship with practicers of what is hurtful</p>
  <p class="sz">And to walking with men of wickedness.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter34_verse9"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>9 </sup>
    </b>For he has said, ‘An able-bodied man does not profit</p>
  <p class="sz">By his taking pleasure in God.’</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter34_verse10"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>10 </sup>
    </b>Therefore, <span class="smcap">YOU </span>men of heart, listen to me.</p>
  <p class="sz">Far be it from the true God to act wickedly,</p>
  <p class="sz">And the Almighty to act unjustly!</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter34_verse11"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>11 </sup>
    </b>For according to the way earthling man acts he will reward him,</p>
  <p class="sz">And according to the path of man he will cause it to come upon him.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter34_verse12"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>12 </sup>
    </b>Yes, for a fact, God himself does not act wickedly,</p>
  <p class="sz">And the Almighty himself does not pervert judgment.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter34_verse13"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>13 </sup>
    </b>Who has assigned to him the earth,</p>
  <p class="sz">And who has appointed to him the productive land, even all of it?</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter34_verse14"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>14 </sup>
    </b>If he sets his heart upon anyone,</p>
  <p class="sz">
    <a id="page705"></a>If that one’s spirit and breath he gathers to himself,</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter34_verse15"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>15 </sup>
    </b>All flesh will expire together,</p>
  <p class="sz">And earthling man himself will return to the very dust.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter34_verse16"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>16 </sup>
    </b>So if you have understanding, do listen to this;</p>
  <p class="sz">Do give ear to the sound of my words.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter34_verse17"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>17 </sup>
    </b>Really will anyone hating justice control,</p>
  <p class="sz">And if a powerful one is righteous will you pronounce him wicked?</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter34_verse18"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>18 </sup>
    </b>Shall one say to a king, ‘You are good for nothing’?</p>
  <p class="sz">To nobles, ‘You are wicked’?</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter34_verse19"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>19 </sup>
    </b>There is One who has not shown partiality to princes</p>
  <p class="sz">And has not given more consideration to the noble one than to the lowly one,</p>
  <p class="sz">For all of them are the work of his hands.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter34_verse20"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>20 </sup>
    </b>In a moment they die, even in the middle of the night;</p>
  <p class="sz">The people shake back and forth and pass away,</p>
  <p class="sz">And powerful ones depart by no hand.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter34_verse21"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>21 </sup>
    </b>For his eyes are upon the ways of man,</p>
  <p class="sz">And all his steps he sees.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter34_verse22"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>22 </sup>
    </b>There is no darkness nor any deep shadow</p>
  <p class="sz">For those practicing what is hurtful to conceal themselves there.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter34_verse23"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>23 </sup>
    </b>For he sets no appointed time for any man</p>
  <p class="sz">To go to God in judgment.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter34_verse24"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>24 </sup>
    </b>He breaks powerful ones without any investigation,</p>
  <p class="sz">And he makes others stand up instead of them.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter34_verse25"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>25 </sup>
    </b>Therefore he recognizes what their works are,</p>
  <p class="sz">And he does overthrow them at night, and they get crushed.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter34_verse26"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>26 </sup>
    </b>As wicked ones he does slap them</p>
  <p class="sz">In the place of onlookers;</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter34_verse27"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>27 </sup>
    </b>For the reason that they have turned aside from following him,</p>
  <p class="sz">And none of his ways have they considered,</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter34_verse28"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>28 </sup>
    </b>So as to cause the outcry of the lowly one to come to him;</p>
  <p class="sz">And so he hears the outcry of the afflicted ones.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter34_verse29"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>29 </sup>
    </b>When he himself causes quietness, who, then, can condemn?</p>
  <p class="sz">And when he conceals his face, who can behold him,</p>
  <p class="sz">Whether it is toward a nation or toward a man, it being the same thing?</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter34_verse30"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>30 </sup>
    </b>So that an apostate man may not reign,</p>
  <p class="sz">Nor there be snares of the people.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter34_verse31"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>31 </sup>
    </b>For will anyone actually say to God himself,</p>
  <p class="sz">‘I have borne, although I do not act corruptly;</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter34_verse32"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>32 </sup>
    </b>Although I behold nothing, instruct me yourself;</p>
  <p class="sz">If any unrighteousness I have committed,</p>
  <p class="sz">I shall not do it again’?</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter34_verse33"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>33 </sup>
    </b>Will he make good for it from your standpoint because you do refuse judgment,</p>
  <p class="sz">Because you yourself choose, and not I?</p>
  <p class="sz">Even what you well know, speak.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter34_verse34"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>34 </sup>
    </b>Men of heart themselves will say to me—</p>
  <p class="sz">Even a wise able-bodied man that is listening to me,</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter34_verse35"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>35 </sup>
    </b>‘Job himself speaks without knowledge,</p>
  <p class="sz">And his words are without his having insight.’</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter34_verse36"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>36 </sup>
    </b>My father, let Job be tested out to the limit</p>
  <p class="sz">Over his replies among men of hurtfulness.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="page706"></a>
    <a id="chapter34_verse37"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>37 </sup>
    </b>For on top of his sin he adds revolt;</p>
  <p class="sz">Among us he claps his hands and multiplies his sayings against the true God!”</p>
</book>