<book>
  <p class="w_biblebookname">Job</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter26"></a>
    <a id="chapter26_verse1"></a>
    <span class="w_ch">
      <b>26 </b>
    </span>And Job proceeded to answer and say:</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter26_verse2"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>2 </sup>
    </b>“O how much help you have been to one without power!</p>
  <p class="sz">O how you have saved an arm that is without strength!</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter26_verse3"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>3 </sup>
    </b>How much you have advised one that is without wisdom,</p>
  <p class="sz">And you have made practical wisdom itself known to the multitude!</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter26_verse4"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>4 </sup>
    </b>To whom have you told words,</p>
  <p class="sz">And whose breath has come forth from you?</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter26_verse5"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>5 </sup>
    </b>Those impotent in death keep trembling</p>
  <p class="sz">Beneath the waters and those residing in them.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter26_verse6"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>6 </sup>
    </b>She′ol is naked in front of him,</p>
  <p class="sz">And the place of destruction has no covering.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter26_verse7"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>7 </sup>
    </b>He is stretching out the north over the empty place,</p>
  <p class="sz">Hanging the earth upon nothing;</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter26_verse8"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>8 </sup>
    </b>Wrapping up the waters in his clouds,</p>
  <p class="sz">So that the cloud mass is not split under them;</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter26_verse9"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>9 </sup>
    </b>Enclosing the face of the throne,</p>
  <p class="sz">Spreading out over it his cloud.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter26_verse10"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>10 </sup>
    </b>He has described a circle upon the face of the waters,</p>
  <p class="sz">To where light ends in darkness.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter26_verse11"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>11 </sup>
    </b>The very pillars of heaven shake,</p>
  <p class="sz">And they are amazed because of his rebuke.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter26_verse12"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>12 </sup>
    </b>By his power he has stirred up the sea,</p>
  <p class="sz">And by his understanding he has broken the stormer to pieces.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter26_verse13"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>13 </sup>
    </b>By his wind he has polished up heaven itself,</p>
  <p class="sz">His hand has pierced the gliding serpent.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter26_verse14"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>14 </sup>
    </b>Look! These are the fringes of his ways,</p>
  <p class="sz">And what a whisper of a matter has been heard of him!</p>
  <p class="sz">
    <a id="page696"></a>But of his mighty thunder who can show an understanding?”</p>
</book>