<book>
  <p class="w_biblebookname">Job</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter23"></a>
    <a id="chapter23_verse1"></a>
    <span class="w_ch">
      <b>23 </b>
    </span>And Job proceeded to answer and say:</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter23_verse2"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>2 </sup>
    </b>“Even today my state of concern is rebelliousness;</p>
  <p class="sz">My own hand is heavy on account of my sighing.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter23_verse3"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>3 </sup>
    </b>O that I really knew where I might find him!</p>
  <p class="sz">I would come clear to his fixed place.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter23_verse4"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>4 </sup>
    </b>I would present before him a case of justice,</p>
  <p class="sz">And my mouth I would fill with counterarguments;</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter23_verse5"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>5 </sup>
    </b>I would know the words with which he answers me,</p>
  <p class="sz">And I would consider what he says to me.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter23_verse6"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>6 </sup>
    </b>Would he with an abundance of power contend with me?</p>
  <p class="sz">O no! Surely he himself would pay heed to me.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter23_verse7"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>7 </sup>
    </b>There the upright one himself will certainly set matters straight with him,</p>
  <p class="sz">And I would go safe forever from my judge.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter23_verse8"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>8 </sup>
    </b>Look! To the east I go, and he is not there;</p>
  <p class="sz">And back again, and I cannot discern him;</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter23_verse9"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>9 </sup>
    </b>To the left where he is working, but I cannot behold him;</p>
  <p class="sz">He turns aside to the right, but I do not see him.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter23_verse10"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>10 </sup>
    </b>For he well knows the way I take.</p>
  <p class="sz">After he has tested me out, I shall come forth as gold itself.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter23_verse11"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>11 </sup>
    </b>Of his steps my foot has laid hold;</p>
  <p class="sz">His way I have kept, and I do not deviate.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter23_verse12"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>12 </sup>
    </b>From the commandment of his lips I do not move away.</p>
  <p class="sz">I have treasured up the sayings of his mouth more than what is prescribed for me.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter23_verse13"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>13 </sup>
    </b>And he is in one mind, and who can resist him?</p>
  <p class="sz">And his own soul has a desire, and he will do it.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter23_verse14"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>14 </sup>
    </b>For he will carry out completely what is prescribed for me,</p>
  <p class="sz">And things like these are many with him.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter23_verse15"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>15 </sup>
    </b>That is why I feel disturbed because of him;</p>
  <p class="sz">I show myself attentive and am in dread of him.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter23_verse16"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>16 </sup>
    </b>Even God himself has made my heart timid,</p>
  <p class="sz">And the Almighty himself has disturbed me.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter23_verse17"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>17 </sup>
    </b>For I have not been put to silence because of darkness,</p>
  <p class="sz">Nor because gloom has covered my own face.</p>
</book>