<book>
  <p class="w_biblebookname">Job</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter16"></a>
    <a id="chapter16_verse1"></a>
    <span class="w_ch">
      <b>16 </b>
    </span>And Job proceeded to answer and say:</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter16_verse2"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>2 </sup>
    </b>“I have heard many things like these.</p>
  <p class="sz">All of <span class="smcap">YOU </span>are troublesome comforters!</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter16_verse3"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>3 </sup>
    </b>Is there an end to windy words?</p>
  <p class="sz">Or what galls you, that you answer?</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter16_verse4"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>4 </sup>
    </b>I myself also could well speak as <span class="smcap">YOU </span>men do.</p>
  <p class="sz">If only <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>souls existed where my soul is,</p>
  <p class="sp">Would I be brilliant in words against <span class="smcap">YOU</span>,</p>
  <p class="sz">And would I wag my head against <span class="smcap">YOU</span>?</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter16_verse5"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>5 </sup>
    </b>I would strengthen <span class="smcap">YOU </span>with the words of my mouth,</p>
  <p class="sz">And the consolation of my own lips would hold back—.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter16_verse6"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>6 </sup>
    </b>If I do speak, my own pain is not held back,</p>
  <p class="sz">And if I do cease doing so, what goes away from me?</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter16_verse7"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>7 </sup>
    </b>Only now he has made me weary;</p>
  <p class="sz">He has made all those assembling with me desolate.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter16_verse8"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>8 </sup>
    </b>You also seize me. It has become a witness,</p>
  <p class="sz">So that my leanness rises up against me. In my face it testifies.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="page686"></a>
    <a id="chapter16_verse9"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>9 </sup>
    </b>His very anger has torn me to pieces, and he harbors animosity against me.</p>
  <p class="sz">He actually grinds his teeth against me.</p>
  <p class="sz">My adversary himself sharpens his eyes against me.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter16_verse10"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>10 </sup>
    </b>They have opened their mouth wide against me,</p>
  <p class="sz">With reproach they have struck my cheeks,</p>
  <p class="sz">In large number they mass themselves against me.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter16_verse11"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>11 </sup>
    </b>God hands me over to young boys,</p>
  <p class="sz">And into the hands of wicked ones he throws me headlong.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter16_verse12"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>12 </sup>
    </b>I had come to be at ease, but he proceeded to shake me up;</p>
  <p class="sz">And he grabbed me by the back of the neck and proceeded to smash me,</p>
  <p class="sz">And he sets me up as a target for himself.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter16_verse13"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>13 </sup>
    </b>His archers encircle me;</p>
  <p class="sz">He splits open my kidneys and feels no compassion;</p>
  <p class="sz">He pours out my gallbladder to the very earth.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter16_verse14"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>14 </sup>
    </b>He keeps breaking through me with breach after breach;</p>
  <p class="sz">He runs at me like a mighty one.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter16_verse15"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>15 </sup>
    </b>Sackcloth I have sewed together over my skin,</p>
  <p class="sz">And I have thrust my horn in the very dust.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter16_verse16"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>16 </sup>
    </b>My face itself has become reddened from weeping,</p>
  <p class="sz">And upon my eyelids there is deep shadow,</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter16_verse17"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>17 </sup>
    </b>Although there is no violence upon my palms,</p>
  <p class="sz">And my prayer is pure.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter16_verse18"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>18 </sup>
    </b>O earth, do not cover my blood!</p>
  <p class="sz">And let there prove to be no place for my outcry!</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter16_verse19"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>19 </sup>
    </b>Also now, look! in the heavens is one testifying about me,</p>
  <p class="sz">And my witness is in the heights.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter16_verse20"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>20 </sup>
    </b>My companions are spokesmen against me;</p>
  <p class="sz">To God my eye has looked sleeplessly.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter16_verse21"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>21 </sup>
    </b>And the decision is to be made between an able-bodied man and God,</p>
  <p class="sz">The same as between a son of man and his fellow.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter16_verse22"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>22 </sup>
    </b>For just a few years are to come,</p>
  <p class="sz">And by the path by which I shall not return I shall go away.</p>
</book>