<div>
  <p class="w_biblebookname">Job</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter9"></a>
    <a id="chapter9_verse1"></a>
    <span class="w_ch">
      <b>9 </b>
    </span>And Job proceeded to answer and say:</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter9_verse2"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>2 </sup>
    </b>“For a fact I do know that it is so.</p>
  <p class="sz">But how can mortal man be in the right in a case with God?</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter9_verse3"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>3 </sup>
    </b>If he should find delight in contending with him,</p>
  <p class="sz">He cannot answer him once out of a thousand.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter9_verse4"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>4 </sup>
    </b>He is wise in heart and strong in power.</p>
  <p class="sz">Who can show stubbornness to him and come off uninjured?</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter9_verse5"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>5 </sup>
    </b>He is moving mountains away, so that people do not even know of them,</p>
  <p class="sz">He who has overthrown them in his anger.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter9_verse6"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>6 </sup>
    </b>He is making the earth go quaking from its place,</p>
  <p class="sz">So that its very pillars shudder.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter9_verse7"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>7 </sup>
    </b>He is saying to the sun that it should not shine forth,</p>
  <p class="sz">And around stars he puts a seal,</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter9_verse8"></a>
    <a id="page678"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>8 </sup>
    </b>Stretching out the heavens by himself</p>
  <p class="sz">And treading upon the high waves of the sea;</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter9_verse9"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>9 </sup>
    </b>Making the Ash constellation, the Ke′sil constellation,</p>
  <p class="sz">And the Ki′mah constellation and the interior rooms of the South;</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter9_verse10"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>10 </sup>
    </b>Doing great things unsearchable,</p>
  <p class="sz">And wonderful things without number.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter9_verse11"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>11 </sup>
    </b>Look! He passes by me and I do not see him,</p>
  <p class="sz">And he moves on and I do not discern him.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter9_verse12"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>12 </sup>
    </b>Look! He snatches away. Who can resist him?</p>
  <p class="sz">Who will say to him, ‘What are you doing?’</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter9_verse13"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>13 </sup>
    </b>God himself will not turn back his anger;</p>
  <p class="sz">Beneath him the helpers of a stormer must bow down.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter9_verse14"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>14 </sup>
    </b>How much more so in case I myself answer him!</p>
  <p class="sz">I will choose my words with him,</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter9_verse15"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>15 </sup>
    </b>Whom I would not answer, even though I were really in the right.</p>
  <p class="sz">Of my opponent-at-law I would implore favor.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter9_verse16"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>16 </sup>
    </b>If I called him, would he answer me?</p>
  <p class="sz">I do not believe that he would give ear to my voice;</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter9_verse17"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>17 </sup>
    </b>Who with a storm bruises me</p>
  <p class="sz">And certainly makes my wounds many for no reason.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter9_verse18"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>18 </sup>
    </b>He will not grant me my taking of a fresh breath,</p>
  <p class="sz">For he keeps glutting me with bitter things.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter9_verse19"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>19 </sup>
    </b>If in power anyone is strong, there he is;</p>
  <p class="sz">And if in justice anyone is strong, O that I may be summoned!</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter9_verse20"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>20 </sup>
    </b>If I were in the right, my own mouth would pronounce me wicked;</p>
  <p class="sz">Were I blameless, then he would declare me crooked.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter9_verse21"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>21 </sup>
    </b>Were I blameless, I would not know my soul;</p>
  <p class="sz">I would refuse my life.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter9_verse22"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>22 </sup>
    </b>One thing there is. That is why I do say,</p>
  <p class="sz">‘One blameless, also a wicked one, he is bringing to their end.’</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter9_verse23"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>23 </sup>
    </b>If a flash flood itself should cause death suddenly,</p>
  <p class="sz">At the very despair of the innocent ones he would mock.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter9_verse24"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>24 </sup>
    </b>Earth itself has been given into the hand of the wicked one;</p>
  <p class="sz">The face of its judges he covers.</p>
  <p class="sz">If not, who, then, is it?</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter9_verse25"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>25 </sup>
    </b>Also my own days have become swifter than a runner;</p>
  <p class="sz">They have run away, they will certainly not see good.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter9_verse26"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>26 </sup>
    </b>They have moved on like reed boats,</p>
  <p class="sz">Like an eagle that darts to and fro for something to eat.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter9_verse27"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>27 </sup>
    </b>If I have said, ‘Let me forget my concern,</p>
  <p class="sz">Let me alter my countenance and brighten up,’</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter9_verse28"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>28 </sup>
    </b>I have been scared of all my pains;</p>
  <p class="sz">I do know that you will not hold me innocent.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter9_verse29"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>29 </sup>
    </b>I myself am to become wicked.</p>
  <p class="sz">Why is it that I toil merely in vain?</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter9_verse30"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>30 </sup>
    </b>If I actually washed myself in snow water,</p>
  <p class="sz">And I actually cleansed my hands in potash,</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter9_verse31"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>31 </sup>
    </b>Then in a pit you would dip me,</p>
  <p class="sz">And my garments would certainly detest me.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter9_verse32"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>32 </sup>
    </b>For he is not a man like me that I should answer him,</p>
  <p class="sz">
    <a id="page679"></a>That we should come together in judgment.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter9_verse33"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>33 </sup>
    </b>There exists no person to decide between us,</p>
  <p class="sz">That he should put his hand upon both of us.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter9_verse34"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>34 </sup>
    </b>Let him remove his rod from upon me,</p>
  <p class="sz">And his frightfulness, let it not terrify me.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter9_verse35"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>35 </sup>
    </b>Let me speak and not be afraid of him,</p>
  <p class="sz">For I am not so disposed in myself.</p>
</div>