<book>
  <p class="w_biblebookname">Job</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter15"></a>
    <a id="chapter15_verse1"></a>
    <span class="w_ch">
      <b>15 </b>
    </span>And El′i·phaz the Te′man·ite proceeded to answer and say:</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter15_verse2"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>2 </sup>
    </b>“Will a wise person himself answer with windy knowledge,</p>
  <p class="sz">Or will he fill his belly with the east wind?</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter15_verse3"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>3 </sup>
    </b>Merely reproving with a word will be of no use,</p>
  <p class="sz">And mere utterances will be of no benefit by themselves.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter15_verse4"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>4 </sup>
    </b>However, you yourself make fear before God to have no force,</p>
  <p class="sz">And you diminish the having of any concern before God.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter15_verse5"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>5 </sup>
    </b>For your error trains your mouth,</p>
  <p class="sz">And you choose the tongue of shrewd people.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter15_verse6"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>6 </sup>
    </b>Your mouth pronounces you wicked, and not I;</p>
  <p class="sz">And your own lips answer against you.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter15_verse7"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>7 </sup>
    </b>Were you the very first man to be born,</p>
  <p class="sz">Or before the hills were you brought forth with labor pains?</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter15_verse8"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>8 </sup>
    </b>To the confidential talk of God do you listen,</p>
  <p class="sz">And do you limit wisdom to yourself?</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter15_verse9"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>9 </sup>
    </b>What do you actually know that we do not know?</p>
  <p class="sz">What do you understand that is not also with us?</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter15_verse10"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>10 </sup>
    </b>Both the gray-headed and the aged one are with us,</p>
  <p class="sz">The one greater than your father in days.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter15_verse11"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>11 </sup>
    </b>Are the consolations of God not enough for you,</p>
  <p class="sz">Or a word spoken gently with you?</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter15_verse12"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>12 </sup>
    </b>Why does your heart carry you away,</p>
  <p class="sz">And why do your eyes flash?</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter15_verse13"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>13 </sup>
    </b>For you turn your spirit against God himself,</p>
  <p class="sz">And you have caused words to go forth from your own mouth.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter15_verse14"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>14 </sup>
    </b>What is mortal man that he should be clean,</p>
  <p class="sz">Or that anyone born of a woman should be in the right?</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter15_verse15"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>15 </sup>
    </b>Look! In his holy ones he has no faith,</p>
  <p class="sz">And the heavens themselves are actually not clean in his eyes.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter15_verse16"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>16 </sup>
    </b>How much less so when one is detestable and corrupt,</p>
  <p class="sz">A man who is drinking in unrighteousness just like water!</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter15_verse17"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>17 </sup>
    </b>I shall declare it to you. Listen to me!</p>
  <p class="sz">Even this I have beheld, so let me relate it,</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter15_verse18"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>18 </sup>
    </b>That which wise ones themselves tell</p>
  <p class="sz">And which they did not hide, it being from their fathers.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter15_verse19"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>19 </sup>
    </b>To them alone the land was given,</p>
  <p class="sz">And no stranger passed through the midst of them.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter15_verse20"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>20 </sup>
    </b>All his days a wicked one is suffering torture,</p>
  <p class="sz">Even the very number of years that have been reserved for the tyrant.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter15_verse21"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>21 </sup>
    </b>The sound of dreadful things is in his ears;</p>
  <p class="sz">During peace a despoiler himself comes upon him.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="page685"></a>
    <a id="chapter15_verse22"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>22 </sup>
    </b>He does not believe that he will come back out of darkness,</p>
  <p class="sz">And he is reserved for a sword.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter15_verse23"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>23 </sup>
    </b>He is straying about in search of bread—where is it?</p>
  <p class="sz">He well knows that the day of darkness is ready at his hand.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter15_verse24"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>24 </sup>
    </b>Distress and anguish keep terrifying him;</p>
  <p class="sz">They overpower him like a king in readiness for the assault.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter15_verse25"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>25 </sup>
    </b>Because he stretches out his hand against God himself,</p>
  <p class="sz">And over the Almighty he tries to show himself superior;</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter15_verse26"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>26 </sup>
    </b>Because he runs against him stiff-neckedly,</p>
  <p class="sz">With the thick bosses of his shields;</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter15_verse27"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>27 </sup>
    </b>Because he actually covers his face with his fattiness</p>
  <p class="sz">And he puts on fat upon his loins,</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter15_verse28"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>28 </sup>
    </b>He merely resides in cities that are to be effaced;</p>
  <p class="sz">In houses in which people will not keep dwelling,</p>
  <p class="sz">Which certainly prove destined for heaps of stones.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter15_verse29"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>29 </sup>
    </b>He will not grow rich and his wealth will not mount up,</p>
  <p class="sz">Nor will he spread out the acquisition of them over the earth.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter15_verse30"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>30 </sup>
    </b>He will not turn away from darkness;</p>
  <p class="sz">His twig a flame will dry up,</p>
  <p class="sz">And he will turn aside by a blast of His mouth.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter15_verse31"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>31 </sup>
    </b>Let him put no faith in worthlessness, being led astray,</p>
  <p class="sz">For mere worthlessness will prove to be what he gets in exchange;</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter15_verse32"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>32 </sup>
    </b>Before his day will it be fulfilled.</p>
  <p class="sz">And his shoot itself will certainly not grow luxuriantly.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter15_verse33"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>33 </sup>
    </b>He will thrust away his unripe grapes just like a vine,</p>
  <p class="sz">And cast off his blossoms just like an olive tree.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter15_verse34"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>34 </sup>
    </b>For the assembly of apostates is sterile,</p>
  <p class="sz">And fire itself must eat up the tents of bribery.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter15_verse35"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>35 </sup>
    </b>There is a conceiving of trouble and a giving birth to what is hurtful,</p>
  <p class="sz">And their belly itself prepares deceit.”</p>
</book>