<book>
  <p class="w_biblebookname">Job</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter20"></a>
    <a id="chapter20_verse1"></a>
    <span class="w_ch">
      <b>20 </b>
    </span>And Zo′phar the Na′a·ma·thite proceeded to reply and say:</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter20_verse2"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>2 </sup>
    </b>“Therefore do my own disquieting thoughts themselves answer me,</p>
  <p class="sz">Even on account of my inward excitement.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter20_verse3"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>3 </sup>
    </b>An insulting exhortation to me I hear;</p>
  <p class="sz">And a spirit without the understanding that I have replies to me.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter20_verse4"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>4 </sup>
    </b>Have you at all times known this very thing,</p>
  <p class="sz">Since man was put upon the earth,</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter20_verse5"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>5 </sup>
    </b>That the joyful cry of wicked people is short</p>
  <p class="sz">And the rejoicing of an apostate is for a moment?</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter20_verse6"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>6 </sup>
    </b>Although his excellency ascends to heaven itself</p>
  <p class="sz">And his very head reaches to the clouds,</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter20_verse7"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>7 </sup>
    </b>Like his manure cakes he perishes forever;</p>
  <p class="sz">The very ones seeing him will say, ‘Where is he?’</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter20_verse8"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>8 </sup>
    </b>Like a dream he will fly off, and they will not find him;</p>
  <p class="sz">And he will be chased away like a vision of the night.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter20_verse9"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>9 </sup>
    </b>The eye that has caught sight of him will not do so again,</p>
  <p class="sz">And no more will his place behold him.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter20_verse10"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>10 </sup>
    </b>His own sons will seek the favor of lowly people,</p>
  <p class="sz">And his own hands will give back his valuable things.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter20_verse11"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>11 </sup>
    </b>His own bones have been full of his youthful vigor,</p>
  <p class="sz">But with him it will lie down in mere dust.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter20_verse12"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>12 </sup>
    </b>If what is bad tastes sweet in his mouth,</p>
  <p class="sz">If he causes it to melt away under his tongue,</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter20_verse13"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>13 </sup>
    </b>If he has compassion upon it and does not leave it,</p>
  <p class="sz">And if he keeps holding it back in the midst of his palate,</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter20_verse14"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>14 </sup>
    </b>His food itself will certainly be changed in his own intestines;</p>
  <p class="sz">It will be the gall of cobras within him.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter20_verse15"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>15 </sup>
    </b>Wealth he has swallowed down, but he will vomit it up;</p>
  <p class="sz">God will drive it out from his very belly.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter20_verse16"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>16 </sup>
    </b>The venom of cobras he will suck;</p>
  <p class="sz">The tongue of a viper will kill him.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="page690"></a>
    <a id="chapter20_verse17"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>17 </sup>
    </b>He will never see the watercourses,</p>
  <p class="sz">Torrential streams of honey and butter.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter20_verse18"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>18 </sup>
    </b>He will be giving back his acquired property and will not swallow it down;</p>
  <p class="sz">Like wealth from his trade, but which he will not enjoy.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter20_verse19"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>19 </sup>
    </b>For he has crushed to pieces, he has left lowly ones;</p>
  <p class="sz">He has snatched away a house itself that he did not proceed to build.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter20_verse20"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>20 </sup>
    </b>For he will certainly know no ease in his belly;</p>
  <p class="sz">By means of his desirable things he will not escape.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter20_verse21"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>21 </sup>
    </b>There is nothing left over for him to devour;</p>
  <p class="sz">That is why his well-being will not endure.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter20_verse22"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>22 </sup>
    </b>While his plenty is at its peak he will be feeling anxious;</p>
  <p class="sz">All the power of misfortune itself will come against him.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter20_verse23"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>23 </sup>
    </b>Let it occur that, to fill his belly,</p>
  <p class="sz">He will send his burning anger upon him</p>
  <p class="sz">And will rain it upon him, into his bowels.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter20_verse24"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>24 </sup>
    </b>He will run away from armor of iron;</p>
  <p class="sz">A bow of copper will cut him up.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter20_verse25"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>25 </sup>
    </b>A missile itself will even go out through his back,</p>
  <p class="sz">And a glittering weapon out through his gall;</p>
  <p class="sl">Frightful objects will go against him.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter20_verse26"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>26 </sup>
    </b>All darkness will be reserved for his treasured things;</p>
  <p class="sz">A fire that no one fanned will eat him up;</p>
  <p class="sz">It will go badly with a survivor in his tent.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter20_verse27"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>27 </sup>
    </b>Heaven will uncover his error,</p>
  <p class="sz">And earth will be in revolt against him.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter20_verse28"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>28 </sup>
    </b>A heavy shower will roll his house away;</p>
  <p class="sz">There will be things poured forth on the day of his anger.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter20_verse29"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>29 </sup>
    </b>This is the share of the wicked man from God,</p>
  <p class="sz">Even his stated inheritance from God.”</p>
</book>