<book>
  <p class="w_biblebookname">Job</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter3"></a>
    <a id="chapter3_verse1"></a>
    <span class="w_ch">
      <b>3 </b>
    </span>It was after this that Job opened his mouth and began to call down evil upon his day. <a id="chapter3_verse2"></a><b><sup>2 </sup></b>Job now answered and said:</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter3_verse3"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>3 </sup>
    </b>“Let the day perish on which I came to be born,</p>
  <p class="sz">Also the night that someone said, ‘An able-bodied man has been conceived!’</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter3_verse4"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>4 </sup>
    </b>As for that day, let it become darkness.</p>
  <p class="sz">Let not God look for it from above,</p>
  <p class="sz">Nor let daylight beam upon it.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter3_verse5"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>5 </sup>
    </b>Let darkness and deep shadow reclaim it.</p>
  <p class="sz">Let a rain cloud reside over it.</p>
  <p class="sz">Let the things that darken a day terrorize it.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter3_verse6"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>6 </sup>
    </b>That night—let gloom take it;</p>
  <p class="sz">Let it not feel glad among the days of a year;</p>
  <p class="sz">Among the number of the lunar months let it not enter.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter3_verse7"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>7 </sup>
    </b>Look! That night—let it become sterile;</p>
  <p class="sz">Let no joyful cry come in it.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter3_verse8"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>8 </sup>
    </b>Let cursers of the day execrate it,</p>
  <p class="sz">Those ready to awaken Le·vi′a·than.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter3_verse9"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>9 </sup>
    </b>Let the stars of its twilight grow dark;</p>
  <p class="sz">Let it wait for the light and there be none;</p>
  <p class="sz">And let it not see the beams of dawn.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter3_verse10"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>10 </sup>
    </b>For it did not close the doors of my mother’s belly,</p>
  <p class="sz">And so conceal trouble from my eyes.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter3_verse11"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>11 </sup>
    </b>Why from the womb did I not proceed to die?</p>
  <p class="sz">Why did I not come forth from the belly itself and then expire?</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="page672"></a>
    <a id="chapter3_verse12"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>12 </sup>
    </b>Why was it that knees confronted me,</p>
  <p class="sz">And why breasts that I should take suck?</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter3_verse13"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>13 </sup>
    </b>For by now I should have lain down that I might be undisturbed;</p>
  <p class="sz">I should have slept then; I should be at rest</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter3_verse14"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>14 </sup>
    </b>With kings and counselors of the earth,</p>
  <p class="sz">Those building desolate places for themselves,</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter3_verse15"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>15 </sup>
    </b>Or with princes who have gold,</p>
  <p class="sz">Those who fill their houses with silver;</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter3_verse16"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>16 </sup>
    </b>Or, like a hidden miscarriage, I should not come to be,</p>
  <p class="sz">Like children that have seen no light.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter3_verse17"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>17 </sup>
    </b>There the wicked themselves have ceased from agitation,</p>
  <p class="sz">And there those weary in power are at rest.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter3_verse18"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>18 </sup>
    </b>Together prisoners themselves are at ease;</p>
  <p class="sz">They actually do not hear the voice of one driving them to work.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter3_verse19"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>19 </sup>
    </b>Small and great are there the same,</p>
  <p class="sz">And the slave is set free from his master.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter3_verse20"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>20 </sup>
    </b>Why does he give light to one having trouble,</p>
  <p class="sz">And life to those bitter of soul?</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter3_verse21"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>21 </sup>
    </b>Why are there those waiting for death, and it is not,</p>
  <p class="sz">Although they keep digging for it more than for hidden treasures?</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter3_verse22"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>22 </sup>
    </b>Those who are rejoicing to gleefulness,</p>
  <p class="sz">They exult because they find a burial place.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter3_verse23"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>23 </sup>
    </b>Why does he give light to able-bodied man, whose way has been concealed,</p>
  <p class="sz">And whom God hedges in?</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter3_verse24"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>24 </sup>
    </b>For before my food my sighing comes,</p>
  <p class="sz">And like waters my roaring cries pour forth;</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter3_verse25"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>25 </sup>
    </b>Because a dreadful thing I have dreaded, and it comes upon me;</p>
  <p class="sz">And what I have been scared of comes to me.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter3_verse26"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>26 </sup>
    </b>I have not been carefree, nor have I been undisturbed,</p>
  <p class="sz">Nor been at rest, and yet agitation comes.”</p>
</book>