<book>
  <p class="w_biblebookname">Job</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter8"></a>
    <a id="chapter8_verse1"></a>
    <span class="w_ch">
      <b>8 </b>
    </span>And Bil′dad the Shu′hite proceeded to answer and say:</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter8_verse2"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>2 </sup>
    </b>“How long will you keep uttering these things,</p>
  <p class="sz">When the sayings of your mouth are but a powerful wind?</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter8_verse3"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>3 </sup>
    </b>Will God himself pervert judgment,</p>
  <p class="sz">Or will the Almighty himself pervert righteousness?</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="page677"></a>
    <a id="chapter8_verse4"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>4 </sup>
    </b>If your own sons have sinned against him,</p>
  <p class="sz">So that he lets them go into the hand of their revolt,</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter8_verse5"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>5 </sup>
    </b>If you yourself will look for God,</p>
  <p class="sz">And if of the Almighty you will implore favor,</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter8_verse6"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>6 </sup>
    </b>If you are pure and upright,</p>
  <p class="sz">By now he would awake for you</p>
  <p class="sz">And he would certainly restore your righteous abiding place.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter8_verse7"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>7 </sup>
    </b>Also, your beginning may have proved to be a small thing,</p>
  <p class="sz">But your own end afterward would grow very great.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter8_verse8"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>8 </sup>
    </b>Indeed, ask, please, of the former generation,</p>
  <p class="sz">And direct your attention to the things searched out by their fathers.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter8_verse9"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>9 </sup>
    </b>For we were only yesterday, and we know nothing,</p>
  <p class="sz">Because our days on earth are a shadow.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter8_verse10"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>10 </sup>
    </b>Will not they themselves instruct you, tell you,</p>
  <p class="sz">And from their heart will they not bring forth words?</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter8_verse11"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>11 </sup>
    </b>Will a papyrus plant grow tall without a swampy place?</p>
  <p class="sz">Will a reed grow big without water?</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter8_verse12"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>12 </sup>
    </b>While it is yet in its bud, not plucked off,</p>
  <p class="sz">Even ahead of all other grass it will dry up.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter8_verse13"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>13 </sup>
    </b>Thus are the pathways of all those forgetting God,</p>
  <p class="sz">And the very hope of an apostate will perish,</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter8_verse14"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>14 </sup>
    </b>Whose confidence is cut off,</p>
  <p class="sz">And whose trust is a spider’s house.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter8_verse15"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>15 </sup>
    </b>He will lean upon his house, but it will not keep standing;</p>
  <p class="sz">He will take hold of it, but it will not last.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter8_verse16"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>16 </sup>
    </b>He is full of sap before the sun,</p>
  <p class="sz">And in his garden his own twig goes forth.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter8_verse17"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>17 </sup>
    </b>In a stone heap his roots become interwoven,</p>
  <p class="sz">A house of stones he beholds.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter8_verse18"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>18 </sup>
    </b>If one swallows him up from his place,</p>
  <p class="sz">It will also certainly deny him, saying, ‘I have not seen you.’</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter8_verse19"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>19 </sup>
    </b>Look! That is the dissolving of his way;</p>
  <p class="sz">And from the dust others spring up.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter8_verse20"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>20 </sup>
    </b>Look! God himself will not reject anyone blameless,</p>
  <p class="sz">Neither will he take hold of the hand of evildoers,</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter8_verse21"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>21 </sup>
    </b>Until he fills your mouth with laughter,</p>
  <p class="sz">And your lips with joyful shouting.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter8_verse22"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>22 </sup>
    </b>The very ones hating you will be clothed with shame,</p>
  <p class="sz">And the tent of wicked ones will not be.”</p>
</book>