<book>
  <p class="w_biblebookname">Job</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter39"></a>
    <a id="chapter39_verse1"></a>
    <span class="w_ch">
      <b>39 </b>
    </span>“Have you come to know the appointed time for the mountain goats of the crag to give birth?</p>
  <p class="sz">Do you observe just when the hinds bring forth with birth pangs?</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter39_verse2"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>2 </sup>
    </b>Do you count the lunar months that they fulfill,</p>
  <p class="sz">Or have you come to know the appointed time that they give birth?</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter39_verse3"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>3 </sup>
    </b>They bow down when they cast forth their young ones,</p>
  <p class="sz">
    <a id="page711"></a>When they get rid of their pangs.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter39_verse4"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>4 </sup>
    </b>Their sons become robust, they get big in the open field;</p>
  <p class="sz">They actually go forth and do not return to them.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter39_verse5"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>5 </sup>
    </b>Who sent forth the zebra free,</p>
  <p class="sz">And who loosened the very bands of the wild ass,</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter39_verse6"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>6 </sup>
    </b>Whose house I have appointed the desert plain</p>
  <p class="sz">And whose dwelling places the salt country?</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter39_verse7"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>7 </sup>
    </b>It laughs at the turmoil of a town;</p>
  <p class="sz">The noises of a stalker it does not hear.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter39_verse8"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>8 </sup>
    </b>It explores mountains for its pasturage</p>
  <p class="sz">And after every sort of green plant it seeks.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter39_verse9"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>9 </sup>
    </b>Does a wild bull want to serve you,</p>
  <p class="sz">Or will it spend the night by your manger?</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter39_verse10"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>10 </sup>
    </b>Will you bind a wild bull fast with its ropes in the furrow,</p>
  <p class="sz">Or will it harrow low plains after you?</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter39_verse11"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>11 </sup>
    </b>Will you trust in it because its power is abundant,</p>
  <p class="sz">And will you leave your toil to it?</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter39_verse12"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>12 </sup>
    </b>Will you rely on it that it will bring back your seed</p>
  <p class="sz">And that it will gather to your threshing floor?</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter39_verse13"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>13 </sup>
    </b>Has the wing of the female ostrich flapped joyously,</p>
  <p class="sz">Or has she the pinions of a stork and the plumage?</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter39_verse14"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>14 </sup>
    </b>For she leaves her eggs to the earth itself</p>
  <p class="sz">And in the dust she keeps them warm,</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter39_verse15"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>15 </sup>
    </b>And she forgets that some foot may crush them</p>
  <p class="sz">Or even a wild beast of the field may tread on them.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter39_verse16"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>16 </sup>
    </b>She does treat her sons roughly, as if not hers—</p>
  <p class="sz">In vain is her toil because she has no dread.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter39_verse17"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>17 </sup>
    </b>For God has made her forget wisdom,</p>
  <p class="sz">And he has not given her a share in understanding.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter39_verse18"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>18 </sup>
    </b>At the time she flaps her wings on high,</p>
  <p class="sz">She laughs at the horse and at its rider.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter39_verse19"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>19 </sup>
    </b>Can you give to the horse mightiness?</p>
  <p class="sz">Can you clothe its neck with a rustling mane?</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter39_verse20"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>20 </sup>
    </b>Can you cause it to leap like a locust?</p>
  <p class="sz">The dignity of its snorting is frightful.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter39_verse21"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>21 </sup>
    </b>It paws in the low plain and exults in power;</p>
  <p class="sz">It goes forth to meet armor.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter39_verse22"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>22 </sup>
    </b>It laughs at dread, and is not terrified;</p>
  <p class="sz">Nor does it turn back on account of a sword.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter39_verse23"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>23 </sup>
    </b>Against it a quiver rattles,</p>
  <p class="sz">The blade of a spear and a javelin.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter39_verse24"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>24 </sup>
    </b>With pounding and excitement it swallows up the earth,</p>
  <p class="sz">And it does not believe that it is the sound of a horn.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter39_verse25"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>25 </sup>
    </b>As soon as the horn blows it says Aha!</p>
  <p class="sz">And from far off it smells the battle,</p>
  <p class="sz">The uproar of chiefs and the war cry.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter39_verse26"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>26 </sup>
    </b>Is it owing to your understanding that the falcon soars up,</p>
  <p class="sz">That it spreads its wings to the south wind?</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter39_verse27"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>27 </sup>
    </b>Or is it at your order that an eagle flies upward</p>
  <p class="sz">And that it builds its nest high up,</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter39_verse28"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>28 </sup>
    </b>That on a crag it resides and stays during the night</p>
  <p class="sz">Upon the tooth of a crag and an inaccessible place?</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter39_verse29"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>29 </sup>
    </b>From there it has to search for food;</p>
  <p class="sz">
    <a id="page712"></a>Far into the distance its eyes keep looking.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter39_verse30"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>30 </sup>
    </b>And its young ones themselves keep sipping up blood;</p>
  <p class="sz">And where the slain are, there it is.”</p>
</book>