<book>
  <p class="w_biblebookname">Psalms</p>
  <p class="sw">Of David.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter144"></a>
    <a id="chapter144_verse1"></a>
    <span class="w_ch">
      <b>144 </b>
    </span>Blessed be Jehovah my Rock,</p>
  <p class="sz">Who is teaching my hands for fighting,</p>
  <p class="sz">My fingers for warfare;</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter144_verse2"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>2 </sup>
    </b>My loving-kindness and my stronghold,</p>
  <p class="sz">My secure height and my Provider of escape for me,</p>
  <p class="sp">My shield and the One in whom I have taken refuge,</p>
  <p class="sz">The One subduing peoples under me.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter144_verse3"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>3 </sup>
    </b>O Jehovah, what is man that you should notice him,</p>
  <p class="sz">The son of mortal man that you should take account of him?</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter144_verse4"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>4 </sup>
    </b>Man himself bears resemblance to a mere exhalation;</p>
  <p class="sz">His days are like a passing shadow.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter144_verse5"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>5 </sup>
    </b>O Jehovah, bend down your heavens that you may descend;</p>
  <p class="sz">Touch the mountains that they may smoke.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter144_verse6"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>6 </sup>
    </b>Lighten with lightning that you may scatter them;</p>
  <p class="sz">Send out your arrows that you may throw them into confusion.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter144_verse7"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>7 </sup>
    </b>Thrust your hands out from the height;</p>
  <p class="sz">Set me free and deliver me from the many waters,</p>
  <p class="sz">From the hand of the foreigners,</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter144_verse8"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>8 </sup>
    </b>Whose mouth has spoken what is untrue</p>
  <p class="sz">And whose right hand is a right hand of falsehood.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter144_verse9"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>9 </sup>
    </b>O God, a new song I will sing to you.</p>
  <p class="sz">On an instrument of ten strings I will make melody to you,</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter144_verse10"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>10 </sup>
    </b>The One giving salvation to kings,</p>
  <p class="sz">The One setting David his servant free from the injurious sword.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter144_verse11"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>11 </sup>
    </b>Set me free and deliver me <a id="page834"></a>from the hand of the foreigners,</p>
  <p class="sz">Whose mouth has spoken what is untrue</p>
  <p class="sz">And whose right hand is a right hand of falsehood,</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter144_verse12"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>12 </sup>
    </b>Who say: “Our sons are like little plants grown up in their youth,</p>
  <p class="sz">Our daughters like corners carved in palace style,</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter144_verse13"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>13 </sup>
    </b>Our garners full, furnishing products of one sort after another,</p>
  <p class="sz">Our flocks multiplying by thousands, ten thousand to one, in our streets,</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter144_verse14"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>14 </sup>
    </b>Our cattle loaded down, without any rupture and with no abortion,</p>
  <p class="sz">And with no outcry in our public squares.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter144_verse15"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>15 </sup>
    </b>Happy is the people for whom it is just like that!”</p>
  <p class="sz">Happy is the people whose God is Jehovah!</p>
</book>