<book>
  <p class="w_biblebookname">Psalms</p>
  <p class="sw">To the director. Of David. A melody.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter109"></a>
    <a id="chapter109_verse1"></a>
    <span class="w_ch">
      <b>109 </b>
    </span>O God of my praise, do not keep silent.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter109_verse2"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>2 </sup>
    </b>For the mouth of the wicked one and the mouth of deception have opened against me.</p>
  <p class="sz">They have spoken about me with the tongue of falsehood;</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter109_verse3"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>3 </sup>
    </b>And with words of hatred they have surrounded me,</p>
  <p class="sz">And they keep fighting against me without cause.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter109_verse4"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>4 </sup>
    </b>For my love they keep resisting me;</p>
  <p class="sz">But on my part there is prayer.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter109_verse5"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>5 </sup>
    </b>And they render to me bad for good</p>
  <p class="sz">And hatred for my love.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter109_verse6"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>6 </sup>
    </b>Appoint over him someone wicked,</p>
  <p class="sz">And may a resister himself keep standing at his right hand.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter109_verse7"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>7 </sup>
    </b>When he is judged, let him go forth as someone wicked;</p>
  <p class="sz">And let his very prayer become a sin.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter109_verse8"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>8 </sup>
    </b>Let his days prove to be few;</p>
  <p class="sz">His office of oversight let someone else take.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter109_verse9"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>9 </sup>
    </b>Let his sons become fatherless boys</p>
  <p class="sz">And his wife be a widow.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter109_verse10"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>10 </sup>
    </b>And without fail let his sons go wandering about;</p>
  <p class="sz">And they must do begging,</p>
  <p class="sl">And they must look for food from their desolate places.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter109_verse11"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>11 </sup>
    </b>Let the usurer lay out traps for all that he has,</p>
  <p class="sz">And let strangers make plunder of his product of toil.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter109_verse12"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>12 </sup>
    </b>May he come to have no one extending loving-kindness,</p>
  <p class="sz">And may there prove to be no one showing favor to his fatherless boys.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter109_verse13"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>13 </sup>
    </b>Let his posterity be for cutting off.</p>
  <p class="sz">In the following generation let their name be wiped out.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter109_verse14"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>14 </sup>
    </b>Let the error of his forefathers be remembered to Jehovah,</p>
  <p class="sz">And the sin of his mother—may it not be wiped out.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter109_verse15"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>15 </sup>
    </b>Let them prove to be in front of Jehovah constantly;</p>
  <p class="sz">And may he cut off the remembrance of them from the very earth;</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter109_verse16"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>16 </sup>
    </b>For the reason that he did not remember to exercise loving-kindness,</p>
  <p class="sz">But he kept pursuing the afflicted and poor man</p>
  <p class="sz">And the one dejected at heart, to put him to death.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter109_verse17"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>17 </sup>
    </b>And he kept loving the malediction, so that it came upon him;</p>
  <p class="sz">And he did not take delight in the blessing,</p>
  <p class="sz">
    <a id="page808"></a>So that it became far away from him;</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter109_verse18"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>18 </sup>
    </b>And he came to be clothed with malediction as his garment.</p>
  <p class="sz">So it came like waters into the midst of him</p>
  <p class="sz">And like oil into his bones.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter109_verse19"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>19 </sup>
    </b>May it prove to be for him like a garment with which he enwraps himself</p>
  <p class="sz">And as a girdle that he keeps girded about himself constantly.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter109_verse20"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>20 </sup>
    </b>This is the wages from Jehovah of the one resisting me</p>
  <p class="sz">And of those speaking evil against my soul.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter109_verse21"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>21 </sup>
    </b>But you are Jehovah the Sovereign Lord.</p>
  <p class="sz">Deal with me for the sake of your name.</p>
  <p class="sz">Because your loving-kindness is good, deliver me.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter109_verse22"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>22 </sup>
    </b>For I am afflicted and poor,</p>
  <p class="sz">And my heart itself has been pierced within me.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter109_verse23"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>23 </sup>
    </b>Like a shadow when it declines, I am obliged to go away;</p>
  <p class="sz">I have been shaken off like a locust.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter109_verse24"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>24 </sup>
    </b>My knees themselves have swayed from fasting,</p>
  <p class="sz">And my very flesh has grown lean, without any oil.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter109_verse25"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>25 </sup>
    </b>And to them I myself have become something reproachable.</p>
  <p class="sz">They see me—they begin wagging their head.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter109_verse26"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>26 </sup>
    </b>Help me, O Jehovah my God;</p>
  <p class="sz">Save me according to your loving-kindness.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter109_verse27"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>27 </sup>
    </b>And may they know that this is your hand;</p>
  <p class="sz">That you yourself, O Jehovah, have done it.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter109_verse28"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>28 </sup>
    </b>Let them, for their part, pronounce a malediction,</p>
  <p class="sz">But may you, for your part, pronounce a blessing.</p>
  <p class="sp">They have risen up, but let them be ashamed,</p>
  <p class="sz">And let your own servant rejoice.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter109_verse29"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>29 </sup>
    </b>Let those resisting me be clothed with humiliation,</p>
  <p class="sz">And let them enwrap themselves with their shame just as with a sleeveless coat.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter109_verse30"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>30 </sup>
    </b>I shall laud Jehovah very much with my mouth,</p>
  <p class="sz">And in among many people I shall praise him.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter109_verse31"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>31 </sup>
    </b>For he will stand at the right hand of the poor,</p>
  <p class="sz">To save him from those judging his soul.</p>
</book>