<div>
  <p class="w_biblebookname">Psalms</p>
  <p class="sw">To the director. Of David, a melody.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter40"></a>
    <a id="chapter40_verse1"></a>
    <span class="w_ch">
      <b>40 </b>
    </span>I earnestly hoped in Jehovah,</p>
  <p class="sz">And so he inclined his ear to me and heard my cry for help.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter40_verse2"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>2 </sup>
    </b>He also proceeded to bring <a id="page746"></a>me up out of a roaring pit,</p>
  <p class="sz">Out of the mire of the sediment.</p>
  <p class="sp">Then he raised up my feet upon a crag;</p>
  <p class="sz">He firmly established my steps.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter40_verse3"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>3 </sup>
    </b>Further, he put in my mouth a new song,</p>
  <p class="sz">Praise to our God.</p>
  <p class="sp">Many will see it and will fear,</p>
  <p class="sz">And they will trust in Jehovah.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter40_verse4"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>4 </sup>
    </b>Happy is the able-bodied man that has put Jehovah as his trust</p>
  <p class="sz">And that has not turned his face to defiant people,</p>
  <p class="sz">Nor to those falling away to lies.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter40_verse5"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>5 </sup>
    </b>Many things you yourself have done,</p>
  <p class="sz">O Jehovah my God, even your wonderful works and your thoughts toward us;</p>
  <p class="sz">There is none to be compared to you.</p>
  <p class="sp">Were I inclined to tell and speak of them,</p>
  <p class="sz">They have become more numerous than I can recount.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter40_verse6"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>6 </sup>
    </b>Sacrifice and offering you did not delight in;</p>
  <p class="sz">These ears of mine you opened up.</p>
  <p class="sz">Burnt offering and sin offering you did not ask for.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter40_verse7"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>7 </sup>
    </b>In view of that, I said: “Here I have come,</p>
  <p class="sz">In the roll of the book it being written about me.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter40_verse8"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>8 </sup>
    </b>To do your will, O my God, I have delighted,</p>
  <p class="sz">And your law is within my inward parts.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter40_verse9"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>9 </sup>
    </b>I have told the good news of righteousness in the big congregation.</p>
  <p class="sz">Look! My lips I do not restrain.</p>
  <p class="sz">O Jehovah, you yourself know that well.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter40_verse10"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>10 </sup>
    </b>Your righteousness I have not covered over within my heart.</p>
  <p class="sz">Your faithfulness and your salvation I have declared.</p>
  <p class="sz">I have not hidden your loving-kindness and your trueness in the big congregation.”</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter40_verse11"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>11 </sup>
    </b>You yourself, O Jehovah, do not restrain your pity from me.</p>
  <p class="sz">Let your loving-kindness and your trueness themselves constantly safeguard me.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter40_verse12"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>12 </sup>
    </b>For calamities encircled me until there was no numbering of them.</p>
  <p class="sz">More errors of mine overtook me than I was able to see;</p>
  <p class="sp">They became more numerous than the hairs of my head,</p>
  <p class="sz">And my own heart left me.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter40_verse13"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>13 </sup>
    </b>Be pleased, O Jehovah, to deliver me.</p>
  <p class="sz">O Jehovah, to my assistance do make haste.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter40_verse14"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>14 </sup>
    </b>May those be ashamed and abashed all together</p>
  <p class="sz">Who are seeking my soul to sweep it away.</p>
  <p class="sz">May those turn back and be humiliated who are delighting in my calamity.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter40_verse15"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>15 </sup>
    </b>Let those stare in amazement in consequence of their shame</p>
  <p class="sz">Who are saying to me: “Aha! Aha!”</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter40_verse16"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>16 </sup>
    </b>Let those exult and rejoice in you,</p>
  <p class="sz">All those who are seeking you.</p>
  <p class="sp">Let those say constantly: “May Jehovah be magnified,”</p>
  <p class="sz">Those who are loving salvation by you.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter40_verse17"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>17 </sup>
    </b>But I am afflicted and poor.</p>
  <p class="sz">Jehovah himself takes account of me.</p>
  <p class="sp">
    <a id="page747"></a>You are my assistance and the Provider of escape for me.</p>
  <p class="sz">O my God, do not be too late.</p>
</div>