<book>
  <p class="w_biblebookname">Psalms</p>
  <p class="sw">A melody of David.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter141"></a>
    <a id="chapter141_verse1"></a>
    <span class="w_ch">
      <b>141 </b>
    </span>O Jehovah, I have called upon you.</p>
  <p class="sz">Do make haste to me.</p>
  <p class="sz">Do give ear to my voice when I call to you.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter141_verse2"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>2 </sup>
    </b>May my prayer be prepared as incense before you,</p>
  <p class="sz">The raising up of my palms as the evening grain offering.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter141_verse3"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>3 </sup>
    </b>Do set a guard, O Jehovah, for my mouth;</p>
  <p class="sz">Do set a watch over the door of my lips.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter141_verse4"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>4 </sup>
    </b>Do not incline my heart to anything bad,</p>
  <p class="sz">So as to carry on notorious deeds in wickedness</p>
  <p class="sp">With men who are practicing what is hurtful,</p>
  <p class="sz">That I may not feed myself on their dainties.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter141_verse5"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>5 </sup>
    </b>Should the righteous one strike me, it would be a loving-kindness;</p>
  <p class="sz">And should he reprove me, it would be oil upon the head,</p>
  <p class="sp">Which my head would not want to refuse.</p>
  <p class="sz">For still there would be even my prayer during their calamities.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="page832"></a>
    <a id="chapter141_verse6"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>6 </sup>
    </b>Their judges have been thrown down by the sides of the crag,</p>
  <p class="sz">But they have heard my sayings, that they are pleasant.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter141_verse7"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>7 </sup>
    </b>As when one is doing cleaving and splitting on the earth,</p>
  <p class="sz">Our bones have been scattered at the mouth of She′ol.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter141_verse8"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>8 </sup>
    </b>However, my eyes are to you, O Jehovah the Sovereign Lord.</p>
  <p class="sz">In you I have taken refuge.</p>
  <p class="sz">Do not pour out my soul.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter141_verse9"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>9 </sup>
    </b>Keep me from the clutches of the trap that they have laid for me</p>
  <p class="sz">And from the snares of those practicing what is hurtful.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter141_verse10"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>10 </sup>
    </b>The wicked will fall into their own nets all together,</p>
  <p class="sz">While I, for my part, pass by.</p>
</book>