<book>
  <p class="w_biblebookname">Psalms</p>
  <p class="sw">Mas′kil. Of E′than the Ez′ra·hite.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter89"></a>
    <a id="chapter89_verse1"></a>
    <span class="w_ch">
      <b>89 </b>
    </span>Jehovah’s expressions of loving-kindness I will sing about even to time indefinite.</p>
  <p class="sz">For generation after generation I shall make your faithfulness known with my mouth.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter89_verse2"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>2 </sup>
    </b>For I have said: “Loving-kindness will stay built even to time indefinite;</p>
  <p class="sz">As for the heavens, you keep your faithfulness firmly established in them.”</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter89_verse3"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>3 </sup>
    </b>“I have concluded a covenant toward my chosen one;</p>
  <p class="sz">
    <a id="page787"></a>I have sworn to David my servant,</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter89_verse4"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>4 </sup>
    </b>‘Even to time indefinite I shall firmly establish your seed,</p>
  <p class="sz">And I will build your throne to generation after generation.’” <i>Se′lah.</i></p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter89_verse5"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>5 </sup>
    </b>And the heavens will laud your marvelous act, O Jehovah,</p>
  <p class="sz">Yes, your faithfulness in the congregation of the holy ones.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter89_verse6"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>6 </sup>
    </b>For who in the skies can be compared to Jehovah?</p>
  <p class="sz">Who can resemble Jehovah among the sons of God?</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter89_verse7"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>7 </sup>
    </b>God is to be held in awe among the intimate group of holy ones;</p>
  <p class="sz">He is grand and fear-inspiring over all who are round about him.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter89_verse8"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>8 </sup>
    </b>O Jehovah God of armies,</p>
  <p class="sz">Who is vigorous like you, O Jah?</p>
  <p class="sz">And your faithfulness is all around you.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter89_verse9"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>9 </sup>
    </b>You are ruling over the swelling of the sea;</p>
  <p class="sz">When it raises up its waves you yourself calm them.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter89_verse10"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>10 </sup>
    </b>You yourself have crushed Ra′hab, even as someone slain.</p>
  <p class="sz">By the arm of your strength you have scattered your enemies.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter89_verse11"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>11 </sup>
    </b>Heaven is yours, the earth also is yours;</p>
  <p class="sz">The productive land and what fills it—you yourself have founded them.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter89_verse12"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>12 </sup>
    </b>The north and the south—you yourself created them;</p>
  <p class="sz">Ta′bor and Her′mon—in your name they cry out joyfully.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter89_verse13"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>13 </sup>
    </b>An arm with mightiness is yours,</p>
  <p class="sz">Your hand is strong,</p>
  <p class="sz">Your right hand is exalted.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter89_verse14"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>14 </sup>
    </b>Righteousness and judgment are the established place of your throne;</p>
  <p class="sz">Loving-kindness and trueness themselves come in before your face.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter89_verse15"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>15 </sup>
    </b>Happy are the people knowing the joyful shouting.</p>
  <p class="sz">O Jehovah, in the light of your face they keep walking.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter89_verse16"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>16 </sup>
    </b>In your name they are joyful all day long</p>
  <p class="sz">And in your righteousness they are exalted.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter89_verse17"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>17 </sup>
    </b>For you are the beauty of their strength;</p>
  <p class="sz">And by your goodwill our horn is exalted.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter89_verse18"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>18 </sup>
    </b>For our shield belongs to Jehovah,</p>
  <p class="sz">And our king belongs to the Holy One of Israel.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter89_verse19"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>19 </sup>
    </b>At that time you spoke in a vision to your loyal ones,</p>
  <p class="sz">And you proceeded to say:</p>
  <p class="sp">“I have placed help upon a mighty one;</p>
  <p class="sz">I have exalted a chosen one from among the people.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter89_verse20"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>20 </sup>
    </b>I have found David my servant;</p>
  <p class="sz">With my holy oil I have anointed him,</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter89_verse21"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>21 </sup>
    </b>With whom my own hand will be firm,</p>
  <p class="sz">Whom my own arm also will strengthen.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter89_verse22"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>22 </sup>
    </b>No enemy will make exactions upon him,</p>
  <p class="sz">Neither will any son of unrighteousness afflict him.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter89_verse23"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>23 </sup>
    </b>And from before him I crushed his adversaries to pieces,</p>
  <p class="sz">And to those intensely hating him I kept dealing out blows.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="page788"></a>
    <a id="chapter89_verse24"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>24 </sup>
    </b>And my faithfulness and my loving-kindness are with him,</p>
  <p class="sz">And in my name his horn is exalted.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter89_verse25"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>25 </sup>
    </b>And on the sea I have put his hand</p>
  <p class="sz">And on the rivers his right hand.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter89_verse26"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>26 </sup>
    </b>He himself calls out to me, ‘You are my Father,</p>
  <p class="sz">My God and the Rock of my salvation.’</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter89_verse27"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>27 </sup>
    </b>Also, I myself shall place him as firstborn,</p>
  <p class="sz">The most high of the kings of the earth.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter89_verse28"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>28 </sup>
    </b>To time indefinite I shall preserve my loving-kindness toward him,</p>
  <p class="sz">And my covenant will be faithful to him.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter89_verse29"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>29 </sup>
    </b>And I shall certainly set up his seed forever</p>
  <p class="sz">And his throne as the days of heaven.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter89_verse30"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>30 </sup>
    </b>If his sons leave my law</p>
  <p class="sz">And in my judicial decisions they do not walk,</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter89_verse31"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>31 </sup>
    </b>If they profane my own statutes</p>
  <p class="sz">And they do not keep my own commandments,</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter89_verse32"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>32 </sup>
    </b>I must also turn my attention to their transgression even with a rod</p>
  <p class="sz">And to their error even with strokes.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter89_verse33"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>33 </sup>
    </b>But my loving-kindness I shall not break off from him,</p>
  <p class="sz">Nor shall I prove false with regard to my faithfulness.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter89_verse34"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>34 </sup>
    </b>I shall not profane my covenant,</p>
  <p class="sz">And the expression out of my lips I shall not change.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter89_verse35"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>35 </sup>
    </b>Once I have sworn in my holiness,</p>
  <p class="sz">To David I will not tell lies.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter89_verse36"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>36 </sup>
    </b>His seed itself will prove to be even to time indefinite,</p>
  <p class="sz">And his throne as the sun in front of me.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter89_verse37"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>37 </sup>
    </b>As the moon it will be firmly established for time indefinite,</p>
  <p class="sz">And as a faithful witness in the skies.” <i>Se′lah.</i></p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter89_verse38"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>38 </sup>
    </b>But you—you have cast off and you keep contemning;</p>
  <p class="sz">You have become furious toward your anointed one.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter89_verse39"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>39 </sup>
    </b>You have spurned the covenant of your servant;</p>
  <p class="sz">You have profaned his diadem to the very earth.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter89_verse40"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>40 </sup>
    </b>You have broken down all his stone pens;</p>
  <p class="sz">You have laid his fortifications in ruin.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter89_verse41"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>41 </sup>
    </b>All those passing along the way have pillaged him;</p>
  <p class="sz">He has become a reproach to his neighbors.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter89_verse42"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>42 </sup>
    </b>You have exalted the right hand of his adversaries;</p>
  <p class="sz">You have caused all his enemies to rejoice.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter89_verse43"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>43 </sup>
    </b>What is more, you again treat his sword as a foe,</p>
  <p class="sz">And you have caused him not to gain ground in the battle.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter89_verse44"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>44 </sup>
    </b>You have made him cease from his luster,</p>
  <p class="sz">And his throne you have hurled to the very earth.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter89_verse45"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>45 </sup>
    </b>You have shortened the days of his youth;</p>
  <p class="sz">You have enwrapped him with shame. <i>Se′lah.</i></p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter89_verse46"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>46 </sup>
    </b>How long, O Jehovah, will you keep yourself concealed? For all time?</p>
  <p class="sz">Will your rage keep on burning just like a fire?</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter89_verse47"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>47 </sup>
    </b>Remember of what duration of life I am.</p>
  <p class="sz">Is it all in vain that you have created all the sons of men?</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter89_verse48"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>48 </sup>
    </b>What able-bodied man is <a id="page789"></a>there alive who will not see death?</p>
  <p class="sz">Can he provide escape for his soul from the hand of She′ol? <i>Se′lah.</i></p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter89_verse49"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>49 </sup>
    </b>Where are your former acts of loving-kindness, O Jehovah,</p>
  <p class="sz">About which you swore to David in your faithfulness?</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter89_verse50"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>50 </sup>
    </b>Remember, O Jehovah, the reproach upon your servants,</p>
  <p class="sz">My carrying in my bosom the reproach of all the many peoples,</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter89_verse51"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>51 </sup>
    </b>How your enemies have reproached, O Jehovah,</p>
  <p class="sz">How they have reproached the footprints of your anointed one.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter89_verse52"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>52 </sup>
    </b>Blessed be Jehovah to time indefinite. Amen and Amen.</p>
</book>