<book>
  <p class="w_biblebookname">Psalms</p>
  <p class="sw">To the director on stringed instruments. Mas′kil. Of David.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter55"></a>
    <a id="chapter55_verse1"></a>
    <span class="w_ch">
      <b>55 </b>
    </span>Do give ear, O God, to my prayer;</p>
  <p class="sz">And do not hide yourself from my request for favor.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter55_verse2"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>2 </sup>
    </b>Do pay attention to me and answer me.</p>
  <p class="sz">I am driven restlessly about by my concern,</p>
  <p class="sz">And I cannot but show disquietude,</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter55_verse3"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>3 </sup>
    </b>Due to the voice of the enemy, because of the pressure of the wicked one.</p>
  <p class="sz">For they keep dropping upon me what is hurtful,</p>
  <p class="sz">And in anger they harbor animosity against me.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter55_verse4"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>4 </sup>
    </b>My very heart is in severe pain within me,</p>
  <p class="sz">And the frights of death itself have fallen upon me.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter55_verse5"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>5 </sup>
    </b>Fear, yes, trembling itself enters into me,</p>
  <p class="sz">And shuddering covers me.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter55_verse6"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>6 </sup>
    </b>And I keep saying: “O that I had wings as a dove has!</p>
  <p class="sz">I would fly away and reside.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter55_verse7"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>7 </sup>
    </b>Look! I would go far away in flight;</p>
  <p class="sz">I would lodge in the wilderness.—<i>Se′lah</i>—</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter55_verse8"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>8 </sup>
    </b>I would hasten to a place of escape for me</p>
  <p class="sz">From the rushing wind, from the tempest.”</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter55_verse9"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>9 </sup>
    </b>Confuse, O Jehovah, divide their tongue,</p>
  <p class="sz">For I have seen violence and disputing in the city.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter55_verse10"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>10 </sup>
    </b>Day and night they go round about it upon its walls;</p>
  <p class="sz">And hurtfulness and trouble are within it.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter55_verse11"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>11 </sup>
    </b>Adversities are within it;</p>
  <p class="sz">And from its public square oppression and deception have not moved away.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter55_verse12"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>12 </sup>
    </b>For it was not an enemy that proceeded to reproach me;</p>
  <p class="sz">Otherwise I could put up with it.</p>
  <p class="sp">It was not an intense hater of me that assumed great airs against me;</p>
  <p class="sz">Otherwise I could conceal myself from him.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter55_verse13"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>13 </sup>
    </b>But it was you, a mortal man who was as my equal,</p>
  <p class="sz">One familiar to me and my acquaintance,</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter55_verse14"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>14 </sup>
    </b>Because we used to enjoy sweet intimacy together;</p>
  <p class="sz">Into the house of God we used to walk with the throng.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter55_verse15"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>15 </sup>
    </b>Desolations be upon them!</p>
  <p class="sz">Let them go down into She′ol alive;</p>
  <p class="sz">For during their alien residence bad things have been within them.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter55_verse16"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>16 </sup>
    </b>As for me, to God I shall call out;</p>
  <p class="sz">And Jehovah himself will save me.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter55_verse17"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>17 </sup>
    </b>Evening and morning and noontime I cannot but show concern and I moan,</p>
  <p class="sz">And he hears my voice.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter55_verse18"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>18 </sup>
    </b>He will certainly redeem and put my soul in peace from the fight that is against me,</p>
  <p class="sz">For in multitudes they have come to be against me.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter55_verse19"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>19 </sup>
    </b>God will hear and answer them,</p>
  <p class="sz">Even He that is sitting enthroned as in the past—<i>Se′lah</i>—</p>
  <p class="sp">
    <a id="page758"></a>Those with whom there are no changings</p>
  <p class="sz">And who have not feared God.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter55_verse20"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>20 </sup>
    </b>He has thrust out his hands against those at peace with him;</p>
  <p class="sz">He has profaned his covenant.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter55_verse21"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>21 </sup>
    </b>Smoother than butter are the words of his mouth,</p>
  <p class="sz">But his heart is disposed to fight.</p>
  <p class="sp">His words are softer than oil,</p>
  <p class="sz">But they are drawn swords.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter55_verse22"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>22 </sup>
    </b>Throw your burden upon Jehovah himself,</p>
  <p class="sz">And he himself will sustain you.</p>
  <p class="sz">Never will he allow the righteous one to totter.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter55_verse23"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>23 </sup>
    </b>But you yourself, O God, will bring them down to the lowest pit.</p>
  <p class="sz">As for bloodguilty and deceitful men, they will not live out half their days.</p>
  <p class="sz">But as for me, I shall trust in you.</p>
</book>