<div>
  <p class="w_biblebookname">Psalms</p>
  <p class="sw">A prayer of David.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter86"></a>
    <a id="chapter86_verse1"></a>
    <span class="w_ch">
      <b>86 </b>
    </span>Incline, O Jehovah, your ear. Answer me,</p>
  <p class="sz">For I am afflicted and poor.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter86_verse2"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>2 </sup>
    </b>O do guard my soul, for I am loyal.</p>
  <p class="sz">Save your servant—you are my God—that is trusting in you.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter86_verse3"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>3 </sup>
    </b>Show me favor, O Jehovah,</p>
  <p class="sz">For to you I keep calling all day long.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter86_verse4"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>4 </sup>
    </b>Make the soul of your servant rejoice,</p>
  <p class="sz">For to you, O Jehovah, I lift up my very soul.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter86_verse5"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>5 </sup>
    </b>For you, O Jehovah, are good and ready to forgive;</p>
  <p class="sz">And the loving-kindness to all those calling upon you is abundant.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter86_verse6"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>6 </sup>
    </b>Do give ear, O Jehovah, to my prayer;</p>
  <p class="sz">And do pay attention to the voice of my entreaties.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="page785"></a>
    <a id="chapter86_verse7"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>7 </sup>
    </b>In the day of my distress I will call upon you,</p>
  <p class="sz">For you will answer me.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter86_verse8"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>8 </sup>
    </b>There is none like you among the gods, O Jehovah,</p>
  <p class="sz">Neither are there any works like yours.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter86_verse9"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>9 </sup>
    </b>All the nations whom you have made will themselves come,</p>
  <p class="sz">And they will bow down before you, O Jehovah,</p>
  <p class="sz">And will give glory to your name.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter86_verse10"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>10 </sup>
    </b>For you are great and are doing wondrous things;</p>
  <p class="sz">You are God, you alone.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter86_verse11"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>11 </sup>
    </b>Instruct me, O Jehovah, about your way.</p>
  <p class="sz">I shall walk in your truth.</p>
  <p class="sz">Unify my heart to fear your name.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter86_verse12"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>12 </sup>
    </b>I laud you, O Jehovah my God, with all my heart,</p>
  <p class="sz">And I will glorify your name to time indefinite,</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter86_verse13"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>13 </sup>
    </b>For your loving-kindness is great toward me,</p>
  <p class="sz">And you have delivered my soul out of She′ol, its lowest place.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter86_verse14"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>14 </sup>
    </b>O God, the presumptuous ones themselves have risen up against me;</p>
  <p class="sz">And the very assembly of tyrannical ones have looked for my soul,</p>
  <p class="sz">And they have not set you in front of themselves.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter86_verse15"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>15 </sup>
    </b>But you, O Jehovah, are a God merciful and gracious,</p>
  <p class="sz">Slow to anger and abundant in loving-kindness and trueness.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter86_verse16"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>16 </sup>
    </b>Turn to me and show me favor.</p>
  <p class="sz">Do give your strength to your servant,</p>
  <p class="sz">And do save the son of your slave girl.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter86_verse17"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>17 </sup>
    </b>Work out with me a sign meaning goodness,</p>
  <p class="sz">That those hating me may see it and be ashamed.</p>
  <p class="sz">For you yourself, O Jehovah, have helped me and comforted me.</p>
</div>