<div>
  <p class="w_biblebookname">Psalms</p>
  <p class="sw">A song. A melody of A′saph.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter83"></a>
    <a id="chapter83_verse1"></a>
    <span class="w_ch">
      <b>83 </b>
    </span>O God, let there be no silence on your part;</p>
  <p class="sz">Do not keep speechless, and do not stay quiet, O Divine One.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter83_verse2"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>2 </sup>
    </b>For, look! your very enemies are in an uproar;</p>
  <p class="sz">And the very ones intensely hating you have raised their head.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter83_verse3"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>3 </sup>
    </b>Against your people they cunningly carry on their confidential talk;</p>
  <p class="sz">And they conspire against your concealed ones.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter83_verse4"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>4 </sup>
    </b>They have said: “Come and let us efface them from being a nation,</p>
  <p class="sz">That the name of Israel may be remembered no more.”</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter83_verse5"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>5 </sup>
    </b>For with the heart they have unitedly exchanged counsel;</p>
  <p class="sz">Against you they proceeded to conclude even a covenant,</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter83_verse6"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>6 </sup>
    </b>The tents of E′dom and the Ish′ma·el·ites, Mo′ab and the Hag′rites,</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter83_verse7"></a>
    <a id="page783"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>7 </sup>
    </b>Ge′bal and Am′mon and Am′a·lek,</p>
  <p class="sz">Phi·lis′ti·a together with the inhabitants of Tyre.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter83_verse8"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>8 </sup>
    </b>Also, As·syr′i·a itself has become joined with them;</p>
  <p class="sz">They have become an arm to the sons of Lot. <i>Se′lah.</i></p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter83_verse9"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>9 </sup>
    </b>Do to them as to Mid′i·an, as to Sis′e·ra,</p>
  <p class="sz">As to Ja′bin at the torrent valley of Ki′shon.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter83_verse10"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>10 </sup>
    </b>They were annihilated at En-dor;</p>
  <p class="sz">They became manure for the ground.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter83_verse11"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>11 </sup>
    </b>As for their nobles, make these like O′reb and like Ze′eb,</p>
  <p class="sz">And like Ze′bah and like Zal·mun′na all their dukes,</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter83_verse12"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>12 </sup>
    </b>Who have said: “Let us take possession of the abiding places of God for ourselves.”</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter83_verse13"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>13 </sup>
    </b>O my God, make them like a thistle whirl,</p>
  <p class="sz">Like stubble before a wind.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter83_verse14"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>14 </sup>
    </b>Like a fire that burns up the forest</p>
  <p class="sz">And like a flame that scorches the mountains,</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter83_verse15"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>15 </sup>
    </b>In just that way may you pursue them with your tempest</p>
  <p class="sz">And may you disturb them with your own storm wind.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter83_verse16"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>16 </sup>
    </b>Fill their faces with dishonor,</p>
  <p class="sz">That people may search for your name, O Jehovah.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter83_verse17"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>17 </sup>
    </b>O may they be ashamed and be disturbed for all times,</p>
  <p class="sz">And may they become abashed and perish;</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter83_verse18"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>18 </sup>
    </b>That people may know that you, whose name is Jehovah,</p>
  <p class="sz">You alone are the Most High over all the earth.</p>
</div>