<div>
  <p class="w_biblebookname">Psalms</p>
  <p class="sw">Mas′kil. Of A′saph.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter78"></a>
    <a id="chapter78_verse1"></a>
    <span class="w_ch">
      <b>78 </b>
    </span>Do give ear, O my people, to my law;</p>
  <p class="sz">Incline <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>ear to the sayings of my mouth.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter78_verse2"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>2 </sup>
    </b>In a proverbial saying I will open my mouth;</p>
  <p class="sz">I will cause riddles of long ago to bubble forth,</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter78_verse3"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>3 </sup>
    </b>Which we have heard and know,</p>
  <p class="sz">And which our own fathers have related to us;</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter78_verse4"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>4 </sup>
    </b>Which we do not hide from their sons,</p>
  <p class="sz">Relating them even to the generation to come,</p>
  <p class="sp">The praises of Jehovah and his strength</p>
  <p class="sz">And his wonderful things that he has done.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter78_verse5"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>5 </sup>
    </b>And he proceeded to raise up a reminder in Jacob,</p>
  <p class="sz">And a law he set in Israel,</p>
  <p class="sp">Things that he commanded our forefathers,</p>
  <p class="sz">To make them known to their sons;</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter78_verse6"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>6 </sup>
    </b>In order that the generation to come, the sons that were to be born, might know them,</p>
  <p class="sz">That they might rise up and relate them to their sons,</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter78_verse7"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>7 </sup>
    </b>And that they might set their confidence in God himself</p>
  <p class="sz">And not forget the practices of God but observe his own commandments.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter78_verse8"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>8 </sup>
    </b>And they should not become like their forefathers,</p>
  <p class="sz">A generation stubborn and rebellious,</p>
  <p class="sp">A generation who had not prepared their heart</p>
  <p class="sz">And whose spirit was not trustworthy with God.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter78_verse9"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>9 </sup>
    </b>The sons of E′phra·im, though armed shooters of the bow,</p>
  <p class="sz">
    <a id="page777"></a>Retreated in the day of fight.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter78_verse10"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>10 </sup>
    </b>They did not keep the covenant of God,</p>
  <p class="sz">And in his law they refused to walk.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter78_verse11"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>11 </sup>
    </b>They also began to forget his dealings</p>
  <p class="sz">And his wonderful works that he caused them to see.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter78_verse12"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>12 </sup>
    </b>In front of their forefathers he had done marvelously</p>
  <p class="sz">In the land of Egypt, the field of Zo′an.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter78_verse13"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>13 </sup>
    </b>He split the sea, that he might let them pass over,</p>
  <p class="sz">And he caused the waters to stand like a dam.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter78_verse14"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>14 </sup>
    </b>And he continued to lead them with a cloud by day</p>
  <p class="sz">And the whole night with a light of fire.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter78_verse15"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>15 </sup>
    </b>He proceeded to split rocks in the wilderness,</p>
  <p class="sz">That he might cause them to drink an abundance just like watery deeps.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter78_verse16"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>16 </sup>
    </b>And he went bringing forth streams out of a crag</p>
  <p class="sz">And causing waters to descend just like rivers.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter78_verse17"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>17 </sup>
    </b>And they kept sinning still more against him</p>
  <p class="sz">By rebelling against the Most High in the waterless region;</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter78_verse18"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>18 </sup>
    </b>And they proceeded to test God in their heart</p>
  <p class="sz">By asking for something to eat for their soul.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter78_verse19"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>19 </sup>
    </b>So they began to speak against God.</p>
  <p class="sz">They said: “Is God able to arrange a table in the wilderness?”</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter78_verse20"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>20 </sup>
    </b>Look! He struck a rock</p>
  <p class="sz">That waters might flow and torrents themselves might flood forth.</p>
  <p class="sp">“Is he able also to give bread itself,</p>
  <p class="sz">Or can he prepare sustenance for his people?”</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter78_verse21"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>21 </sup>
    </b>That was why Jehovah heard and began to be furious;</p>
  <p class="sz">And fire itself was kindled against Jacob,</p>
  <p class="sz">And anger also ascended against Israel.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter78_verse22"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>22 </sup>
    </b>For they did not put faith in God,</p>
  <p class="sz">And they did not trust in salvation by him.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter78_verse23"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>23 </sup>
    </b>And he proceeded to command the cloudy skies above,</p>
  <p class="sz">And he opened the very doors of heaven.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter78_verse24"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>24 </sup>
    </b>And he kept raining upon them manna to eat,</p>
  <p class="sz">And the grain of heaven he gave to them.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter78_verse25"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>25 </sup>
    </b>Men ate the very bread of powerful ones;</p>
  <p class="sz">Provisions he sent them to satisfaction.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter78_verse26"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>26 </sup>
    </b>He began making an east wind burst forth in the heavens</p>
  <p class="sz">And making a south wind blow by his own strength.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter78_verse27"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>27 </sup>
    </b>And he proceeded to make sustenance rain upon them just like dust,</p>
  <p class="sz">Even winged flying creatures just like the sand grains of the seas.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter78_verse28"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>28 </sup>
    </b>And he kept making them fall in the middle of his camp,</p>
  <p class="sz">All around his tabernacles.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter78_verse29"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>29 </sup>
    </b>And they went eating and satisfying themselves very much,</p>
  <p class="sz">And what they desired he proceeded to bring to them.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter78_verse30"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>30 </sup>
    </b>They had not turned aside from their desire,</p>
  <p class="sz">While their food was yet in their mouth,</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter78_verse31"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>31 </sup>
    </b>When God’s wrath itself ascended against them.</p>
  <p class="sz">And he went killing among their stout ones;</p>
  <p class="sz">
    <a id="page778"></a>And the young men of Israel he made collapse.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter78_verse32"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>32 </sup>
    </b>Despite all this they sinned some more</p>
  <p class="sz">And did not put faith in his wonderful works.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter78_verse33"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>33 </sup>
    </b>So he brought their days to an end as if a mere exhalation,</p>
  <p class="sz">And their years by the disturbance.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter78_verse34"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>34 </sup>
    </b>As often as he killed them, they also inquired for him,</p>
  <p class="sz">And they returned and looked for God.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter78_verse35"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>35 </sup>
    </b>And they began to remember that God was their Rock,</p>
  <p class="sz">And that God the Most High was their Avenger.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter78_verse36"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>36 </sup>
    </b>And they tried to fool him with their mouth;</p>
  <p class="sz">And with their tongue they tried to lie to him.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter78_verse37"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>37 </sup>
    </b>And their heart was not steadfast with him;</p>
  <p class="sz">And they did not prove faithful in his covenant.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter78_verse38"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>38 </sup>
    </b>But he was merciful; he would cover the error and not bring ruin.</p>
  <p class="sz">And many times he made his anger turn back,</p>
  <p class="sz">And he would not rouse up all his rage.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter78_verse39"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>39 </sup>
    </b>And he kept remembering that they were flesh,</p>
  <p class="sz">That the spirit is going forth and does not come back.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter78_verse40"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>40 </sup>
    </b>How often they would rebel against him in the wilderness,</p>
  <p class="sz">They would make him feel hurt in the desert!</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter78_verse41"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>41 </sup>
    </b>And again and again they would put God to the test,</p>
  <p class="sz">And they pained even the Holy One of Israel.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter78_verse42"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>42 </sup>
    </b>They did not remember his hand,</p>
  <p class="sz">The day that he redeemed them from the adversary,</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter78_verse43"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>43 </sup>
    </b>How he put his signs in Egypt itself</p>
  <p class="sz">And his miracles in the field of Zo′an;</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter78_verse44"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>44 </sup>
    </b>And how he began changing to blood their Nile canals,</p>
  <p class="sz">So that they could not drink from their own streams.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter78_verse45"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>45 </sup>
    </b>He proceeded to send upon them gadflies, that these might eat them up;</p>
  <p class="sz">And frogs, that these might bring them to ruin.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter78_verse46"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>46 </sup>
    </b>And he began to give to the cockroaches their yield,</p>
  <p class="sz">And their toil to the locusts.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter78_verse47"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>47 </sup>
    </b>He went killing their vine even by the hail</p>
  <p class="sz">And their sycamore trees by hailstones.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter78_verse48"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>48 </sup>
    </b>And he proceeded to hand over their beasts of burden even to the hail</p>
  <p class="sz">And their livestock to the flaming fever.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter78_verse49"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>49 </sup>
    </b>He went sending upon them his burning anger,</p>
  <p class="sz">Fury and denunciation and distress,</p>
  <p class="sz">Deputations of angels bringing calamity.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter78_verse50"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>50 </sup>
    </b>He proceeded to prepare a pathway for his anger.</p>
  <p class="sz">He did not hold back their soul from death itself;</p>
  <p class="sz">And their life he handed over even to the pestilence.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter78_verse51"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>51 </sup>
    </b>Finally he struck down all the firstborn in Egypt,</p>
  <p class="sz">The beginning of their generative power in the tents of Ham.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter78_verse52"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>52 </sup>
    </b>Afterward he caused his people to depart just like a flock,</p>
  <p class="sz">And conducted them like a drove in the wilderness.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter78_verse53"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>53 </sup>
    </b>And he kept leading them in security, and they felt no dread;</p>
  <p class="sz">
    <a id="page779"></a>And the sea covered their enemies themselves.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter78_verse54"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>54 </sup>
    </b>And he proceeded to bring them to his holy territory,</p>
  <p class="sz">This mountainous region that his right hand acquired.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter78_verse55"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>55 </sup>
    </b>And because of them he gradually drove out the nations,</p>
  <p class="sz">And by the measuring line he went allotting them an inheritance,</p>
  <p class="sz">So that he caused the tribes of Israel to reside in their own homes.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter78_verse56"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>56 </sup>
    </b>And they began to test and rebel against God the Most High,</p>
  <p class="sz">And his reminders they did not keep.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter78_verse57"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>57 </sup>
    </b>They also kept turning back and acting treacherously like their forefathers;</p>
  <p class="sz">They turned around like a loose bow.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter78_verse58"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>58 </sup>
    </b>And they kept offending him with their high places,</p>
  <p class="sz">And with their graven images they kept inciting him to jealousy.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter78_verse59"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>59 </sup>
    </b>God heard and got to be furious,</p>
  <p class="sz">And so he contemned Israel very much.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter78_verse60"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>60 </sup>
    </b>And he finally forsook the tabernacle of Shi′loh,</p>
  <p class="sz">The tent in which he resided among earthling men.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter78_verse61"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>61 </sup>
    </b>And he proceeded to give his strength even to captivity</p>
  <p class="sz">And his beauty into the hand of the adversary.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter78_verse62"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>62 </sup>
    </b>And he kept handing over his people to the sword itself,</p>
  <p class="sz">And against his inheritance he became furious.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter78_verse63"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>63 </sup>
    </b>His young men a fire ate up,</p>
  <p class="sz">And his virgins were not praised.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter78_verse64"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>64 </sup>
    </b>As for his priests, they fell by the very sword,</p>
  <p class="sz">And their own widows did not give way to weeping.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter78_verse65"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>65 </sup>
    </b>Then Jehovah began to awake as from sleeping,</p>
  <p class="sz">Like a mighty one sobering up from wine.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter78_verse66"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>66 </sup>
    </b>And he went striking down his adversaries from behind;</p>
  <p class="sz">A reproach of indefinite duration he gave to them.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter78_verse67"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>67 </sup>
    </b>And he proceeded to reject the tent of Joseph;</p>
  <p class="sz">And the tribe of E′phra·im he did not choose.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter78_verse68"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>68 </sup>
    </b>But he chose the tribe of Judah,</p>
  <p class="sz">Mount Zion, which he loved.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter78_verse69"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>69 </sup>
    </b>And he began to build his sanctuary just like the heights,</p>
  <p class="sz">Like the earth that he has founded to time indefinite.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter78_verse70"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>70 </sup>
    </b>And so he chose David his servant</p>
  <p class="sz">And took him from the pens of the flock.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter78_verse71"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>71 </sup>
    </b>From following the females giving suck</p>
  <p class="sz">He brought him in to be a shepherd over Jacob his people</p>
  <p class="sz">And over Israel his inheritance.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter78_verse72"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>72 </sup>
    </b>And he began to shepherd them according to the integrity of his heart,</p>
  <p class="sz">And with the skillfulness of his hands he began leading them.</p>
</div>