<div>
  <p class="w_biblebookname">Psalms</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter2"></a>
    <a id="chapter2_verse1"></a>
    <span class="w_ch">
      <b>2 </b>
    </span>Why have the nations been in tumult</p>
  <p class="sz">And the national groups themselves kept muttering an empty thing?</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter2_verse2"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>2 </sup>
    </b>The kings of earth take their stand</p>
  <p class="sz">And high officials themselves have massed together as one</p>
  <p class="sz">Against Jehovah and against his anointed one,</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter2_verse3"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>3 </sup>
    </b>Saying: “Let us tear their bands apart</p>
  <p class="sz">And cast their cords away from us!”</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter2_verse4"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>4 </sup>
    </b>The very One sitting in the heavens will laugh;</p>
  <p class="sz">Jehovah himself will hold them in derision.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter2_verse5"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>5 </sup>
    </b>At that time he will speak to them in his anger</p>
  <p class="sz">And in his hot displeasure he will disturb them,</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter2_verse6"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>6 </sup>
    </b>Saying: “I, even I, have installed my king</p>
  <p class="sz">Upon Zion, my holy mountain.”</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter2_verse7"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>7 </sup>
    </b>Let me refer to the decree of Jehovah;</p>
  <p class="sz">He has said to me: “You are my son;</p>
  <p class="sz">I, today, I have become your father.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter2_verse8"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>8 </sup>
    </b>Ask of me, that I may give nations as your inheritance</p>
  <p class="sz">And the ends of the earth as your own possession.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="page716"></a>
    <a id="chapter2_verse9"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>9 </sup>
    </b>You will break them with an iron scepter,</p>
  <p class="sz">As though a potter’s vessel you will dash them to pieces.”</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter2_verse10"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>10 </sup>
    </b>And now, O kings, exercise insight;</p>
  <p class="sz">Let yourselves be corrected, O judges of the earth.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter2_verse11"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>11 </sup>
    </b>Serve Jehovah with fear</p>
  <p class="sz">And be joyful with trembling.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter2_verse12"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>12 </sup>
    </b>Kiss the son, that He may not become incensed</p>
  <p class="sz">And <span class="smcap">YOU </span>may not perish from the way,</p>
  <p class="sp">For his anger flares up easily.</p>
  <p class="sz">Happy are all those taking refuge in him.</p>
</div>