<book>
  <p class="w_biblebookname">Psalms</p>
  <p class="sw">A song, a melody of the sons of Ko′rah. To the director over Ma′ha·lath for making responses. Mas′kil of He′man the Ez′ra·hite.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter88"></a>
    <a id="chapter88_verse1"></a>
    <span class="w_ch">
      <b>88 </b>
    </span>O Jehovah, the God of my salvation,</p>
  <p class="sz">By day I have cried out,</p>
  <p class="sz">In the night also in front of you.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="page786"></a>
    <a id="chapter88_verse2"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>2 </sup>
    </b>Before you my prayer will come.</p>
  <p class="sz">Incline your ear to my entreating cry.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter88_verse3"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>3 </sup>
    </b>For my soul has had enough of calamities,</p>
  <p class="sz">And my very life has come in touch even with She′ol.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter88_verse4"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>4 </sup>
    </b>I have been reckoned in among those going down to the pit;</p>
  <p class="sz">I have become like an able-bodied man without strength,</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter88_verse5"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>5 </sup>
    </b>Set free among the dead themselves,</p>
  <p class="sz">Like slain ones lying in the burial place,</p>
  <p class="sp">Whom you have remembered no longer</p>
  <p class="sz">And who have been severed from your own helping hand.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter88_verse6"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>6 </sup>
    </b>You have put me in a pit of the lowest depths,</p>
  <p class="sz">In dark places, in a large abyss.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter88_verse7"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>7 </sup>
    </b>Upon me your rage has thrown itself,</p>
  <p class="sz">And with all your breaking waves you have afflicted me. <i>Se′lah.</i></p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter88_verse8"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>8 </sup>
    </b>You have put my acquaintances far away from me;</p>
  <p class="sz">You have set me as something very detestable to them.</p>
  <p class="sz">I am under restraint and cannot go forth.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter88_verse9"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>9 </sup>
    </b>My own eye has languished because of my affliction.</p>
  <p class="sz">I have called on you, O Jehovah, all day long;</p>
  <p class="sz">To you I have spread out my palms.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter88_verse10"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>10 </sup>
    </b>For those who are dead will you do a marvel?</p>
  <p class="sz">Or will those impotent in death themselves arise,</p>
  <p class="sz">Will they laud you? <i>Se′lah.</i></p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter88_verse11"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>11 </sup>
    </b>Will your loving-kindness be declared in the burial place itself,</p>
  <p class="sz">Your faithfulness in the place of destruction?</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter88_verse12"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>12 </sup>
    </b>Will a marvel by you be known in the darkness itself,</p>
  <p class="sz">Or your righteousness in the land of oblivion?</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter88_verse13"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>13 </sup>
    </b>And yet to you, O Jehovah, I myself have cried for help,</p>
  <p class="sz">And in the morning my own prayer keeps confronting you.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter88_verse14"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>14 </sup>
    </b>Why is it, O Jehovah, that you cast off my soul?</p>
  <p class="sz">Why do you keep your face concealed from me?</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter88_verse15"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>15 </sup>
    </b>I am afflicted and about to expire from boyhood on;</p>
  <p class="sz">I have borne frightful things from you very much.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter88_verse16"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>16 </sup>
    </b>Over me your flashes of burning anger have passed;</p>
  <p class="sz">Terrors from you yourself have brought me to silence.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter88_verse17"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>17 </sup>
    </b>They have surrounded me like waters all day long;</p>
  <p class="sz">They have closed in upon me all at one time.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter88_verse18"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>18 </sup>
    </b>You have put far away from me friend and companion;</p>
  <p class="sz">My acquaintances are a dark place.</p>
</book>