<book>
  <p class="w_biblebookname">Psalms</p>
  <p class="sw">To the director on Je·du′thun. Of A′saph. A melody.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter77"></a>
    <a id="chapter77_verse1"></a>
    <span class="w_ch">
      <b>77 </b>
    </span>With my voice I will even cry out to God himself,</p>
  <p class="sz">With my voice to God, and he will certainly give ear to me.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter77_verse2"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>2 </sup>
    </b>In the day of my distress I have searched for Jehovah himself.</p>
  <p class="sz">At night my very hand has been stretched out and does not grow numb;</p>
  <p class="sz">My soul has refused to be comforted.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter77_verse3"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>3 </sup>
    </b>I will remember God and be boisterous;</p>
  <p class="sz">I will show concern, that my spirit may faint away. <i>Se′lah.</i></p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter77_verse4"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>4 </sup>
    </b>You have seized hold of my eyelids;</p>
  <p class="sz">I have become agitated, and I cannot speak.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter77_verse5"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>5 </sup>
    </b>I have thought upon the days of long ago,</p>
  <p class="sz">On the years in the indefinite past.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter77_verse6"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>6 </sup>
    </b>I will remember my string music in the night;</p>
  <p class="sz">With my heart I will show concern,</p>
  <p class="sz">And my spirit will carefully search.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter77_verse7"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>7 </sup>
    </b>Will it be to times indefinite that Jehovah keeps casting off,</p>
  <p class="sz">And will he no more be pleased again?</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter77_verse8"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>8 </sup>
    </b>Has his loving-kindness terminated forever?</p>
  <p class="sz">Has his saying come to nothing for generation after generation?</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter77_verse9"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>9 </sup>
    </b>Has God forgotten to be favorable,</p>
  <p class="sz">Or has he shut off his mercies in anger? <i>Se′lah.</i></p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter77_verse10"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>10 </sup>
    </b>And shall I keep saying: “This is what pierces me through,</p>
  <p class="sz">
    <a id="page776"></a>The changing of the right hand of the Most High”?</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter77_verse11"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>11 </sup>
    </b>I shall remember the practices of Jah;</p>
  <p class="sz">For I will remember your marvelous doing of long ago.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter77_verse12"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>12 </sup>
    </b>And I shall certainly meditate on all your activity,</p>
  <p class="sz">And with your dealings I will concern myself.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter77_verse13"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>13 </sup>
    </b>O God, your way is in the holy place.</p>
  <p class="sz">Who is a great God like God?</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter77_verse14"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>14 </sup>
    </b>You are the true God, doing marvelously.</p>
  <p class="sz">Among the peoples you have made your strength known.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter77_verse15"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>15 </sup>
    </b>With your arm you have recovered your people,</p>
  <p class="sz">The sons of Jacob and of Joseph. <i>Se′lah.</i></p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter77_verse16"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>16 </sup>
    </b>The waters have seen you, O God,</p>
  <p class="sz">The waters have seen you; they began to be in severe pains.</p>
  <p class="sz">Also, the watery deeps began to be agitated.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter77_verse17"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>17 </sup>
    </b>The clouds have thunderously poured down water;</p>
  <p class="sz">A sound the cloudy skies have given forth.</p>
  <p class="sz">Also, your own arrows proceeded to go here and there.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter77_verse18"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>18 </sup>
    </b>The sound of your thunder was like chariot wheels;</p>
  <p class="sz">Lightnings have lighted up the productive land;</p>
  <p class="sz">The earth became agitated and began to rock.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter77_verse19"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>19 </sup>
    </b>Through the sea your way was,</p>
  <p class="sz">And your path was through many waters;</p>
  <p class="sz">And your very footprints have not come to be known.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter77_verse20"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>20 </sup>
    </b>You have led your people just like a flock,</p>
  <p class="sz">By the hand of Moses and Aaron.</p>
</book>