<book>
  <p class="w_biblebookname">Psalms</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter105"></a>
    <a id="chapter105_verse1"></a>
    <span class="w_ch">
      <b>105 </b>
    </span>G<span class="smcap">IVE </span>thanks to Jehovah, call upon his name,</p>
  <p class="sz">Make known among the peoples his dealings.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter105_verse2"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>2 </sup>
    </b>Sing to him, make melody to him,</p>
  <p class="sz">Concern yourselves with all his wonderful works.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter105_verse3"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>3 </sup>
    </b>Make <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>boast in his holy name.</p>
  <p class="sz">Let the heart of those seeking Jehovah rejoice.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter105_verse4"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>4 </sup>
    </b>Search for Jehovah and his strength.</p>
  <p class="sz">Seek his face constantly.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter105_verse5"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>5 </sup>
    </b>Remember his wonderful works that he has performed,</p>
  <p class="sz">His miracles and the judicial decisions of his mouth,</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter105_verse6"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>6 </sup>
    </b>O <span class="smcap">YOU </span>seed of Abraham his servant,</p>
  <p class="sz">Y<span class="smcap">OU </span>sons of Jacob, his chosen ones.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter105_verse7"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>7 </sup>
    </b>He is Jehovah our God.</p>
  <p class="sz">His judicial decisions are in all the earth.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter105_verse8"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>8 </sup>
    </b>He has remembered his covenant even to time indefinite,</p>
  <p class="sz">The word that he commanded, to a thousand generations,</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter105_verse9"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>9 </sup>
    </b>Which covenant he concluded with Abraham,</p>
  <p class="sz">And his sworn statement to Isaac,</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter105_verse10"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>10 </sup>
    </b>And which statement he kept standing as a regulation even to Jacob,</p>
  <p class="sz">As an indefinitely lasting covenant even to Israel,</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter105_verse11"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>11 </sup>
    </b>Saying: “To you I shall give the land of Ca′naan</p>
  <p class="sz">As the allotment of <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>inheritance.”</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter105_verse12"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>12 </sup>
    </b>This was when they happened to be few in number,</p>
  <p class="sz">Yes, very few, and alien residents in it.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter105_verse13"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>13 </sup>
    </b>And they kept walking about from nation to nation,</p>
  <p class="sz">
    <a id="page801"></a>From one kingdom to another people.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter105_verse14"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>14 </sup>
    </b>He did not allow any human to defraud them,</p>
  <p class="sz">But on their account he reproved kings,</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter105_verse15"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>15 </sup>
    </b>Saying: “Do not <span class="smcap">YOU </span>men touch my anointed ones,</p>
  <p class="sz">And to my prophets do nothing bad.”</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter105_verse16"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>16 </sup>
    </b>And he proceeded to call for a famine upon the land;</p>
  <p class="sz">He broke every rod around which ring-shaped loaves were suspended.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter105_verse17"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>17 </sup>
    </b>He sent ahead of them a man</p>
  <p class="sz">Who was sold to be a slave, Joseph.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter105_verse18"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>18 </sup>
    </b>With fetters they afflicted his feet,</p>
  <p class="sz">Into irons his soul came;</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter105_verse19"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>19 </sup>
    </b>Until the time that his word came,</p>
  <p class="sz">The saying of Jehovah itself refined him.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter105_verse20"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>20 </sup>
    </b>The king sent that he might release him,</p>
  <p class="sz">The ruler of the peoples, that he might let him loose.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter105_verse21"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>21 </sup>
    </b>He set him as master to his household</p>
  <p class="sz">And as ruler over all his property,</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter105_verse22"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>22 </sup>
    </b>To bind his princes agreeably to his soul</p>
  <p class="sz">And that he might teach wisdom to even his elderly men.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter105_verse23"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>23 </sup>
    </b>And Israel proceeded to come into Egypt,</p>
  <p class="sz">And Jacob himself resided as an alien in the land of Ham.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter105_verse24"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>24 </sup>
    </b>And he kept making his people very fruitful,</p>
  <p class="sz">And gradually made them mightier than their adversaries.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter105_verse25"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>25 </sup>
    </b>He let their heart change to hate his people,</p>
  <p class="sz">To behave cunningly against his servants.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter105_verse26"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>26 </sup>
    </b>He sent Moses his servant,</p>
  <p class="sz">Aaron whom he had chosen.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter105_verse27"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>27 </sup>
    </b>They set among them the matters of his signs,</p>
  <p class="sz">And the miracles in the land of Ham.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter105_verse28"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>28 </sup>
    </b>He sent darkness and so made it dark;</p>
  <p class="sz">And they did not rebel against his words.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter105_verse29"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>29 </sup>
    </b>He changed their waters into blood,</p>
  <p class="sz">And proceeded to put their fish to death.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter105_verse30"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>30 </sup>
    </b>Their land swarmed with frogs,</p>
  <p class="sz">In the interior rooms of their kings.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter105_verse31"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>31 </sup>
    </b>He said that the gadflies should come in,</p>
  <p class="sz">Gnats in all their territories.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter105_verse32"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>32 </sup>
    </b>He made their downpours hail,</p>
  <p class="sz">A flaming fire on their land.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter105_verse33"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>33 </sup>
    </b>And he proceeded to strike their vines and their fig trees</p>
  <p class="sz">And to break the trees of their territory.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter105_verse34"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>34 </sup>
    </b>He said that the locusts should come in,</p>
  <p class="sz">And a species of locust, even without number.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter105_verse35"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>35 </sup>
    </b>And they went eating all the vegetation in their land;</p>
  <p class="sz">They also went eating the fruitage of their ground.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter105_verse36"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>36 </sup>
    </b>And he proceeded to strike down every firstborn in their land,</p>
  <p class="sz">The beginning of all their generative power.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter105_verse37"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>37 </sup>
    </b>And he began to bring them out with silver and gold;</p>
  <p class="sz">And among his tribes there was no one stumbling along.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter105_verse38"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>38 </sup>
    </b>Egypt rejoiced when they went out,</p>
  <p class="sz">For the dread of them had fallen upon them.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter105_verse39"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>39 </sup>
    </b>He spread out a cloud for a screen,</p>
  <p class="sz">
    <a id="page802"></a>And fire to give light by night.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter105_verse40"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>40 </sup>
    </b>They asked, and he proceeded to bring quails,</p>
  <p class="sz">And with bread from heaven he kept satisfying them.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter105_verse41"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>41 </sup>
    </b>He opened a rock, and waters began to flow out;</p>
  <p class="sz">These went through the waterless regions as a river.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter105_verse42"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>42 </sup>
    </b>For he remembered his holy word with Abraham his servant.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter105_verse43"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>43 </sup>
    </b>So he brought out his people with exultation,</p>
  <p class="sz">His chosen ones even with a joyful cry.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter105_verse44"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>44 </sup>
    </b>And gradually he gave them the lands of the nations,</p>
  <p class="sz">And they kept taking possession of the product of the hard work of national groups,</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter105_verse45"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>45 </sup>
    </b>To the end that they might keep his regulations</p>
  <p class="sz">And observe his own laws.</p>
  <p class="sz">Praise Jah, <span class="smcap">YOU </span>people!</p>
</book>