<div>
  <p class="w_biblebookname">Psalms</p>
  <p class="sw">A melody of David, when he happened to be in the wilderness of Judah.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter63"></a>
    <a id="chapter63_verse1"></a>
    <span class="w_ch">
      <b>63 </b>
    </span>O God, you are my God, I keep looking for you.</p>
  <p class="sz">My soul does thirst for you.</p>
  <p class="sp">For you my flesh has grown faint with longing</p>
  <p class="sz">In a land dry and exhausted, where there is no water.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter63_verse2"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>2 </sup>
    </b>Thus I have beheld you in the holy place,</p>
  <p class="sz">At seeing your strength and your glory.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter63_verse3"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>3 </sup>
    </b>Because your loving-kindness is better than life,</p>
  <p class="sz">My own lips will commend you.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter63_verse4"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>4 </sup>
    </b>Thus I shall bless you during my lifetime;</p>
  <p class="sz">In your name I shall raise my palms.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter63_verse5"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>5 </sup>
    </b>As with the best part, even fatness, my soul is satisfied,</p>
  <p class="sz">And with lips of joyful cries my mouth offers praise.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter63_verse6"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>6 </sup>
    </b>When I have remembered you upon my lounge,</p>
  <p class="sz">During the night watches I meditate on you.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="page763"></a>
    <a id="chapter63_verse7"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>7 </sup>
    </b>For you have proved to be of assistance to me,</p>
  <p class="sz">And in the shadow of your wings I cry out joyfully.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter63_verse8"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>8 </sup>
    </b>My soul has closely followed you;</p>
  <p class="sz">On me your right hand keeps fast hold.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter63_verse9"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>9 </sup>
    </b>As for those who keep seeking my soul for its ruin,</p>
  <p class="sz">They will come into the lowest parts of the earth.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter63_verse10"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>10 </sup>
    </b>They will be delivered over to the power of the sword;</p>
  <p class="sz">They will become a mere portion for foxes.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter63_verse11"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>11 </sup>
    </b>And the king himself will rejoice in God.</p>
  <p class="sz">Every one swearing by him will boast,</p>
  <p class="sz">For the mouth of those speaking falsehood will be stopped up.</p>
</div>