<book>
  <p class="w_biblebookname">Psalms</p>
  <p class="sw">Of David.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter26"></a>
    <a id="chapter26_verse1"></a>
    <span class="w_ch">
      <b>26 </b>
    </span>Judge me, O Jehovah, for I myself have walked in my own integrity,</p>
  <p class="sz">And in Jehovah I have trusted, that I may not wobble.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter26_verse2"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>2 </sup>
    </b>Examine me, O Jehovah, and put me to the test;</p>
  <p class="sz">
    <a id="page733"></a>Refine my kidneys and my heart.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter26_verse3"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>3 </sup>
    </b>For your loving-kindness is in front of my eyes,</p>
  <p class="sz">And I have walked in your truth.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter26_verse4"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>4 </sup>
    </b>I have not sat with men of untruth;</p>
  <p class="sz">And with those who hide what they are I do not come in.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter26_verse5"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>5 </sup>
    </b>I have hated the congregation of evildoers,</p>
  <p class="sz">And with the wicked ones I do not sit.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter26_verse6"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>6 </sup>
    </b>I shall wash my hands in innocency itself,</p>
  <p class="sz">And I will march around your altar, O Jehovah,</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter26_verse7"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>7 </sup>
    </b>To cause thanksgiving to be heard aloud,</p>
  <p class="sz">And to declare all your wonderful works.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter26_verse8"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>8 </sup>
    </b>Jehovah, I have loved the dwelling of your house</p>
  <p class="sz">And the place of the residing of your glory.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter26_verse9"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>9 </sup>
    </b>Do not take away my soul along with sinners,</p>
  <p class="sz">Nor my life along with bloodguilty men,</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter26_verse10"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>10 </sup>
    </b>In whose hands there is loose conduct,</p>
  <p class="sz">And whose right hand is full of bribery.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter26_verse11"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>11 </sup>
    </b>As for me, in my integrity I shall walk.</p>
  <p class="sz">O redeem me and show me favor.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter26_verse12"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>12 </sup>
    </b>My own foot will certainly stand on a level place;</p>
  <p class="sz">Among the congregated throngs I shall bless Jehovah.</p>
</book>