<book>
  <p class="w_biblebookname">Psalms</p>
  <p class="sw">
    <a id="page740"></a>Of David.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter35"></a>
    <a id="chapter35_verse1"></a>
    <span class="w_ch">
      <b>35 </b>
    </span>Do conduct my case, O Jehovah, against my opponents;</p>
  <p class="sz">War against those warring against me.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter35_verse2"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>2 </sup>
    </b>Take hold of buckler and large shield,</p>
  <p class="sz">And do rise up in assistance of me,</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter35_verse3"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>3 </sup>
    </b>And draw spear and double ax to meet those pursuing me.</p>
  <p class="sz">Say to my soul: “I am your salvation.”</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter35_verse4"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>4 </sup>
    </b>May those be shamed and humiliated who are hunting for my soul.</p>
  <p class="sz">May those be turned back and be abashed who are scheming calamity for me.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter35_verse5"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>5 </sup>
    </b>May they become like chaff before the wind,</p>
  <p class="sz">And let Jehovah’s angel be pushing them along.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter35_verse6"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>6 </sup>
    </b>Let their way become darkness and slippery places,</p>
  <p class="sz">And let Jehovah’s angel be pursuing them.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter35_verse7"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>7 </sup>
    </b>For without cause they have hid for me their netted pit;</p>
  <p class="sz">Without cause they have dug it for my soul.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter35_verse8"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>8 </sup>
    </b>Let ruin come upon him without his knowing,</p>
  <p class="sz">And let his own net that he hid catch him;</p>
  <p class="sz">With ruin let him fall into it.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter35_verse9"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>9 </sup>
    </b>But let my own soul be joyful in Jehovah;</p>
  <p class="sz">Let it exult in his salvation.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter35_verse10"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>10 </sup>
    </b>Let all my bones themselves say:</p>
  <p class="sz">“O Jehovah, who is there like you,</p>
  <p class="sp">Delivering the afflicted one from one stronger than he is,</p>
  <p class="sz">And the afflicted and poor one from the one robbing him?”</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter35_verse11"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>11 </sup>
    </b>Violent witnesses rise up;</p>
  <p class="sz">What I have not known they ask me.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter35_verse12"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>12 </sup>
    </b>They reward me with bad for good,</p>
  <p class="sz">Bereavement to my soul.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter35_verse13"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>13 </sup>
    </b>As for me, when they became ill, my clothing was sackcloth,</p>
  <p class="sz">With fasting I afflicted my soul,</p>
  <p class="sz">And upon my bosom my own prayer would return.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter35_verse14"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>14 </sup>
    </b>As for a companion, as for a brother of mine,</p>
  <p class="sz">I walked about like one mourning for a mother.</p>
  <p class="sz">Saddened, I bowed down.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter35_verse15"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>15 </sup>
    </b>But at my limping they rejoiced and gathered together;</p>
  <p class="sz">They gathered together against me,</p>
  <p class="sp">Striking me down when I did not know it;</p>
  <p class="sz">They ripped me to pieces and did not keep silent.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter35_verse16"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>16 </sup>
    </b>Among the apostate mockers for a cake</p>
  <p class="sz">There was a grinding of their teeth even against me.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter35_verse17"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>17 </sup>
    </b>O Jehovah, how long will you keep seeing it?</p>
  <p class="sz">Do bring back my soul from their ravages,</p>
  <p class="sz">Even my only one from the maned young lions.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter35_verse18"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>18 </sup>
    </b>I will laud you in the big congregation;</p>
  <p class="sz">Among a numerous people I shall praise you.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter35_verse19"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>19 </sup>
    </b>O may those who for no reason are my enemies not rejoice over me;</p>
  <p class="sz">As for those hating me without cause, let them not wink the eye.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter35_verse20"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>20 </sup>
    </b>For it is not peace that they speak;</p>
  <p class="sz">But against the quiet ones of the earth</p>
  <p class="sz">
    <a id="page741"></a>Things of deception they keep scheming.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter35_verse21"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>21 </sup>
    </b>And they open wide their mouth even against me.</p>
  <p class="sz">They have said: “Aha! Aha! our eye has seen it.”</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter35_verse22"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>22 </sup>
    </b>You have seen, O Jehovah. Do not keep silent.</p>
  <p class="sz">O Jehovah, do not keep yourself far from me.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter35_verse23"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>23 </sup>
    </b>Do arouse yourself and awake to my judgment,</p>
  <p class="sz">O my God, even Jehovah, to my case at law.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter35_verse24"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>24 </sup>
    </b>Judge me according to your righteousness, O Jehovah my God,</p>
  <p class="sz">And may they not rejoice over me.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter35_verse25"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>25 </sup>
    </b>O may they not say in their heart: “Aha, our soul!”</p>
  <p class="sz">May they not say: “We have swallowed him up.”</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter35_verse26"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>26 </sup>
    </b>Let those be ashamed and abashed all together</p>
  <p class="sz">Who are joyful at my calamity.</p>
  <p class="sz">Let those be clothed with shame and humiliation who are assuming great airs against me.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter35_verse27"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>27 </sup>
    </b>Let those cry out joyfully and rejoice who are delighting in my righteousness,</p>
  <p class="sz">And let them say constantly:</p>
  <p class="sz">“Let Jehovah be magnified, who takes delight in the peace of his servant.”</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter35_verse28"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>28 </sup>
    </b>And let my own tongue utter in an undertone your righteousness,</p>
  <p class="sz">All day long your praise.</p>
</book>