<div>
  <p class="w_biblebookname">Psalms</p>
  <p class="sw">A melody of David.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter143"></a>
    <a id="chapter143_verse1"></a>
    <span class="w_ch">
      <b>143 </b>
    </span>O Jehovah, hear my prayer;</p>
  <p class="sz">Do give ear to my entreaty.</p>
  <p class="sz">In your faithfulness answer me in your righteousness.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter143_verse2"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>2 </sup>
    </b>And do not enter into judgment with your servant;</p>
  <p class="sz">For before you no one alive can be righteous.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter143_verse3"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>3 </sup>
    </b>For the enemy has pursued my soul;</p>
  <p class="sz">He has crushed my life to the very earth.</p>
  <p class="sz">He has caused me to dwell in dark places like those dead for time indefinite.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter143_verse4"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>4 </sup>
    </b>And my spirit faints away within me;</p>
  <p class="sz">In the midst of me my heart shows itself numbed.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter143_verse5"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>5 </sup>
    </b>I have remembered days of long ago;</p>
  <p class="sz">I have meditated on all your activity;</p>
  <p class="sz">
    <a id="page833"></a>I willingly kept myself concerned with the work of your own hands.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter143_verse6"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>6 </sup>
    </b>I have spread out my hands to you;</p>
  <p class="sz">My soul is like an exhausted land to you. <i>Se′lah.</i></p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter143_verse7"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>7 </sup>
    </b>O hurry, answer me, O Jehovah.</p>
  <p class="sz">My spirit has come to an end.</p>
  <p class="sp">Do not conceal your face from me,</p>
  <p class="sz">Or else I must become comparable with those going down into the pit.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter143_verse8"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>8 </sup>
    </b>In the morning cause me to hear your loving-kindness,</p>
  <p class="sz">For in you I have put my trust.</p>
  <p class="sp">Make known to me the way in which I should walk,</p>
  <p class="sz">For to you I have lifted up my soul.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter143_verse9"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>9 </sup>
    </b>Deliver me from my enemies, O Jehovah.</p>
  <p class="sz">I have taken cover even with you.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter143_verse10"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>10 </sup>
    </b>Teach me to do your will,</p>
  <p class="sz">For you are my God.</p>
  <p class="sp">Your spirit is good;</p>
  <p class="sz">May it lead me in the land of uprightness.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter143_verse11"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>11 </sup>
    </b>For the sake of your name, O Jehovah, may you preserve me alive.</p>
  <p class="sz">In your righteousness may you bring forth my soul out of distress.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter143_verse12"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>12 </sup>
    </b>And in your loving-kindness may you silence my enemies;</p>
  <p class="sz">And you must destroy all those showing hostility to my soul,</p>
  <p class="sz">For I am your servant.</p>
</div>