<book>
  <p class="w_biblebookname">Psalms</p>
  <p class="sw">Of David.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter27"></a>
    <a id="chapter27_verse1"></a>
    <span class="w_ch">
      <b>27 </b>
    </span>Jehovah is my light and my salvation.</p>
  <p class="sz">Of whom shall I be in fear?</p>
  <p class="sp">Jehovah is the stronghold of my life.</p>
  <p class="sz">Of whom shall I be in dread?</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter27_verse2"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>2 </sup>
    </b>When the evildoers approached against me to eat up my flesh,</p>
  <p class="sz">They being my adversaries and my enemies personally,</p>
  <p class="sz">They themselves stumbled and fell.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter27_verse3"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>3 </sup>
    </b>Though against me an encampment should pitch tent,</p>
  <p class="sz">My heart will not fear.</p>
  <p class="sp">Though against me war should rise,</p>
  <p class="sz">Even then I shall be trusting.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter27_verse4"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>4 </sup>
    </b>One thing I have asked from Jehovah—</p>
  <p class="sz">It is what I shall look for,</p>
  <p class="sz">That I may dwell in the house of Jehovah all the days of my life,</p>
  <p class="sp">To behold the pleasantness of Jehovah</p>
  <p class="sz">And to look with appreciation upon his temple.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter27_verse5"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>5 </sup>
    </b>For he will hide me in his covert in the day of calamity;</p>
  <p class="sz">He will conceal me in the secret place of his tent;</p>
  <p class="sz">High on a rock he will put me.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter27_verse6"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>6 </sup>
    </b>And now my head will be high above my enemies all around me;</p>
  <p class="sz">And I will sacrifice at his tent sacrifices of joyful shouting;</p>
  <p class="sz">I will sing and make melody to Jehovah.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter27_verse7"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>7 </sup>
    </b>Hear, O Jehovah, when I call with my voice,</p>
  <p class="sz">And show me favor and answer me.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter27_verse8"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>8 </sup>
    </b>Concerning you my heart has said: “Seek to find my face, <span class="smcap">YOU </span>people.”</p>
  <p class="sz">Your face, O Jehovah, I shall seek to find.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter27_verse9"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>9 </sup>
    </b>Do not conceal your face from me.</p>
  <p class="sz">Do not in anger turn your servant away.</p>
  <p class="sp">
    <a id="page734"></a>My assistance you must become.</p>
  <p class="sz">Do not forsake me and do not leave me, O my God of salvation.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter27_verse10"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>10 </sup>
    </b>In case my own father and my own mother did leave me,</p>
  <p class="sz">Even Jehovah himself would take me up.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter27_verse11"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>11 </sup>
    </b>Instruct me, O Jehovah, in your way,</p>
  <p class="sz">And lead me in the path of uprightness on account of my foes.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter27_verse12"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>12 </sup>
    </b>Do not give me over to the soul of my adversaries;</p>
  <p class="sz">For against me false witnesses have risen up,</p>
  <p class="sz">And he who launches forth violence.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter27_verse13"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>13 </sup>
    </b>If I had not had faith in seeing the goodness of Jehovah in the land of those alive—!</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter27_verse14"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>14 </sup>
    </b>Hope in Jehovah; be courageous and let your heart be strong.</p>
  <p class="sz">Yes, hope in Jehovah.</p>
</book>