<div>
  <p class="w_biblebookname">Psalms</p>
  <p class="ss">BOOK FIVE</p>
  <p class="ss">(Psalms 107 – 150)</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter107"></a>
    <a id="chapter107_verse1"></a>
    <span class="w_ch">
      <b>107 </b>
    </span>O give thanks to Jehovah, <span class="smcap">YOU </span>people, for he is good;</p>
  <p class="sz">For his loving-kindness is to time indefinite.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter107_verse2"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>2 </sup>
    </b>Let the reclaimed ones of Jehovah say so,</p>
  <p class="sz">Whom he has reclaimed from the hand of the adversary,</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter107_verse3"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>3 </sup>
    </b>And whom he has collected together even from the lands,</p>
  <p class="sz">From the sunrise and from the sunset,</p>
  <p class="sz">From the north and from the south.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter107_verse4"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>4 </sup>
    </b>They wandered about in the wilderness, in the desert;</p>
  <p class="sz">They did not find any way to a city of habitation.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter107_verse5"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>5 </sup>
    </b>They were hungry, also thirsty;</p>
  <p class="sz">Their very soul within them began to faint away.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter107_verse6"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>6 </sup>
    </b>And they kept crying out to Jehovah in their distress;</p>
  <p class="sz">Out of the stresses upon them he proceeded to deliver them,</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter107_verse7"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>7 </sup>
    </b>And to have them walk in the right way,</p>
  <p class="sz">So as to come to a city of habitation.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="page805"></a>
    <a id="chapter107_verse8"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>8 </sup>
    </b>O let people give thanks to Jehovah for his loving-kindness</p>
  <p class="sz">And for his wonderful works to the sons of men.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter107_verse9"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>9 </sup>
    </b>For he has satisfied the dried-out soul;</p>
  <p class="sz">And the hungry soul he has filled with good things.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter107_verse10"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>10 </sup>
    </b>There were those dwelling in darkness and deep shadow,</p>
  <p class="sz">Prisoners in affliction and irons.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter107_verse11"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>11 </sup>
    </b>For they had behaved rebelliously against the sayings of God;</p>
  <p class="sz">And the counsel of the Most High they had disrespected.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter107_verse12"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>12 </sup>
    </b>So with trouble he proceeded to subdue their heart;</p>
  <p class="sz">They stumbled, and there was no one helping.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter107_verse13"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>13 </sup>
    </b>And they began calling to Jehovah for help in their distress;</p>
  <p class="sz">Out of the stresses upon them he as usual saved them.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter107_verse14"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>14 </sup>
    </b>He went bringing them out from darkness and deep shadow,</p>
  <p class="sz">And tearing even their bands apart.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter107_verse15"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>15 </sup>
    </b>O let people give thanks to Jehovah for his loving-kindness</p>
  <p class="sz">And for his wonderful works to the sons of men.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter107_verse16"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>16 </sup>
    </b>For he has broken the doors of copper,</p>
  <p class="sz">And he has cut down even the bars of iron.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter107_verse17"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>17 </sup>
    </b>Those who were foolish, due to the way of their transgression</p>
  <p class="sz">And due to their errors, finally caused themselves affliction.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter107_verse18"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>18 </sup>
    </b>Their soul got to detest even every sort of food,</p>
  <p class="sz">And they were arriving at the gates of death.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter107_verse19"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>19 </sup>
    </b>And they began calling to Jehovah for help in their distress;</p>
  <p class="sz">Out of the stresses upon them he as usual saved them.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter107_verse20"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>20 </sup>
    </b>He proceeded to send his word and heal them</p>
  <p class="sz">And to provide them escape out of their pits.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter107_verse21"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>21 </sup>
    </b>O let people give thanks to Jehovah for his loving-kindness</p>
  <p class="sz">And for his wonderful works to the sons of men.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter107_verse22"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>22 </sup>
    </b>And let them offer the sacrifices of thanksgiving</p>
  <p class="sz">And declare his works with a joyful cry.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter107_verse23"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>23 </sup>
    </b>Those going down to the sea in the ships,</p>
  <p class="sz">Doing business on vast waters,</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter107_verse24"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>24 </sup>
    </b>They are the ones that have seen the works of Jehovah</p>
  <p class="sz">And his wonderful works in the depths;</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter107_verse25"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>25 </sup>
    </b>How he says the word and causes a tempestuous wind to arise,</p>
  <p class="sz">So that it lifts up its waves.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter107_verse26"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>26 </sup>
    </b>They go up to the heavens,</p>
  <p class="sz">They go down to the bottoms.</p>
  <p class="sz">Because of the calamity their very soul finds itself melting.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter107_verse27"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>27 </sup>
    </b>They reel and move unsteadily like a drunken man,</p>
  <p class="sz">And even all their wisdom proves confused.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter107_verse28"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>28 </sup>
    </b>And they begin crying out to Jehovah in their distress,</p>
  <p class="sz">And out of the stresses upon them he brings them forth.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter107_verse29"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>29 </sup>
    </b>He causes the windstorm to stand at a calm,</p>
  <p class="sz">
    <a id="page806"></a>So that the waves of the sea keep quiet.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter107_verse30"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>30 </sup>
    </b>And they rejoice because these become still,</p>
  <p class="sz">And he leads them to the haven of their delight.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter107_verse31"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>31 </sup>
    </b>O let people give thanks to Jehovah for his loving-kindness</p>
  <p class="sz">And for his wonderful works to the sons of men.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter107_verse32"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>32 </sup>
    </b>And let them extol him in the congregation of the people;</p>
  <p class="sz">And in the seat of the elderly men let them praise him.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter107_verse33"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>33 </sup>
    </b>He converts rivers into a wilderness,</p>
  <p class="sz">And the outflows of water into thirsty ground,</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter107_verse34"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>34 </sup>
    </b>Fruitful land into salt country,</p>
  <p class="sz">Owing to the badness of those dwelling in it.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter107_verse35"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>35 </sup>
    </b>He converts a wilderness into a reedy pool of water,</p>
  <p class="sz">And the land of a waterless region into outflows of water.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter107_verse36"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>36 </sup>
    </b>And there he causes the hungry ones to dwell,</p>
  <p class="sz">So that they firmly establish a city of habitation.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter107_verse37"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>37 </sup>
    </b>And they sow fields and plant vineyards,</p>
  <p class="sz">That they may yield fruitful crops.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter107_verse38"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>38 </sup>
    </b>And he blesses them so that they become very many;</p>
  <p class="sz">And he does not let their cattle become few.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter107_verse39"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>39 </sup>
    </b>Again they become few and crouch down</p>
  <p class="sz">Owing to restraint, calamity and grief.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter107_verse40"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>40 </sup>
    </b>He is pouring out contempt upon nobles,</p>
  <p class="sz">So that he makes them wander about in a featureless place, where there is no way.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter107_verse41"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>41 </sup>
    </b>But he protects the poor one from affliction</p>
  <p class="sz">And converts him into families just like a flock.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter107_verse42"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>42 </sup>
    </b>The upright ones see and rejoice;</p>
  <p class="sz">But as for all unrighteousness, it has to shut its mouth.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter107_verse43"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>43 </sup>
    </b>Who is wise? He will both observe these things</p>
  <p class="sz">And show himself attentive toward Jehovah’s acts of loving-kindness.</p>
</div>