<div>
  <p class="w_biblebookname">Psalms</p>
  <p class="ss">
    <span class="smcap">א </span>[<i>ʼA′leph</i>]</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter119"></a>
    <a id="chapter119_verse1"></a>
    <span class="w_ch">
      <b>119 </b>
    </span>Happy are the ones faultless in their way,</p>
  <p class="sz">The ones walking in the law of Jehovah.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter119_verse2"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>2 </sup>
    </b>Happy are those observing his reminders;</p>
  <p class="sz">With all the heart they keep searching for him.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter119_verse3"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>3 </sup>
    </b>Really they have practiced no unrighteousness.</p>
  <p class="sz">In his ways they have walked.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter119_verse4"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>4 </sup>
    </b>You yourself have commandingly given your orders</p>
  <p class="sz">To be carefully kept.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter119_verse5"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>5 </sup>
    </b>O that my ways were firmly established</p>
  <p class="sz">To keep your regulations!</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter119_verse6"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>6 </sup>
    </b>In that case I should not be ashamed,</p>
  <p class="sz">When I look to all your commandments.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter119_verse7"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>7 </sup>
    </b>I shall laud you in uprightness of heart,</p>
  <p class="sz">When I learn your righteous judicial decisions.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter119_verse8"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>8 </sup>
    </b>Your regulations I continue to keep.</p>
  <p class="sz">O do not leave me entirely.</p>
  <p class="ss">
    <span class="smcap">ב </span>[<i>Behth</i>]</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter119_verse9"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>9 </sup>
    </b>How will a young man cleanse his path?</p>
  <p class="sz">By keeping on guard according to your word.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter119_verse10"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>10 </sup>
    </b>With my whole heart I have searched for you.</p>
  <p class="sz">Do not cause me to go astray from your commandments.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter119_verse11"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>11 </sup>
    </b>In my heart I have treasured up your saying,</p>
  <p class="sz">In order that I may not sin against you.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter119_verse12"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>12 </sup>
    </b>Blessed you are, O Jehovah.</p>
  <p class="sz">Teach me your regulations.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter119_verse13"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>13 </sup>
    </b>With my lips I have declared</p>
  <p class="sz">All the judicial decisions of your mouth.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter119_verse14"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>14 </sup>
    </b>In the way of your reminders I have exulted,</p>
  <p class="sz">Just as over all other valuable things.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter119_verse15"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>15 </sup>
    </b>With your orders I will concern myself,</p>
  <p class="sz">And I will look to your paths.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter119_verse16"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>16 </sup>
    </b>For your statutes I shall show a fondness.</p>
  <p class="sz">I shall not forget your word.</p>
  <p class="ss">
    <span class="smcap">ג </span>[<i>Gi′mel</i>]</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter119_verse17"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>17 </sup>
    </b>Act appropriately toward your servant, that I may live</p>
  <p class="sz">And that I may keep your word.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter119_verse18"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>18 </sup>
    </b>Uncover my eyes, that I may look</p>
  <p class="sz">At the wonderful things out of your law.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter119_verse19"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>19 </sup>
    </b>I am but an alien resident in the land.</p>
  <p class="sz">Do not conceal from me your commandments.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="page815"></a>
    <a id="chapter119_verse20"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>20 </sup>
    </b>My soul is crushed with longing</p>
  <p class="sz">For your judicial decisions all the time.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter119_verse21"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>21 </sup>
    </b>You have rebuked the cursed presumptuous ones,</p>
  <p class="sz">Who are straying from your commandments.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter119_verse22"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>22 </sup>
    </b>Roll off me reproach and contempt,</p>
  <p class="sz">For I have observed your own reminders.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter119_verse23"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>23 </sup>
    </b>Even princes have sat; against me they have spoken with one another.</p>
  <p class="sz">As for your servant, he concerns himself with your regulations.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter119_verse24"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>24 </sup>
    </b>Also, your reminders are what I am fond of,</p>
  <p class="sz">As men of my counsel.</p>
  <p class="ss">
    <span class="smcap">ד </span>[<i>Da′leth</i>]</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter119_verse25"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>25 </sup>
    </b>My soul has been cleaving to the very dust.</p>
  <p class="sz">Preserve me alive according to your word.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter119_verse26"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>26 </sup>
    </b>I have declared my own ways, that you may answer me.</p>
  <p class="sz">Teach me your regulations.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter119_verse27"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>27 </sup>
    </b>Make me understand the way of your own orders,</p>
  <p class="sz">That I may concern myself with your wonderful works.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter119_verse28"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>28 </sup>
    </b>My soul has been sleepless from grief.</p>
  <p class="sz">Raise me up according to your word.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter119_verse29"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>29 </sup>
    </b>Remove from me even the false way,</p>
  <p class="sz">And favor me with your own law.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter119_verse30"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>30 </sup>
    </b>The way of faithfulness I have chosen.</p>
  <p class="sz">Your judicial decisions I have considered appropriate.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter119_verse31"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>31 </sup>
    </b>I have cleaved to your reminders.</p>
  <p class="sz">O Jehovah, do not put me to shame.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter119_verse32"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>32 </sup>
    </b>I shall run the very way of your commandments,</p>
  <p class="sz">Because you make my heart have the room.</p>
  <p class="ss">
    <span class="smcap">ה </span>[<i>He</i>ʼ]</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter119_verse33"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>33 </sup>
    </b>Instruct me, O Jehovah, in the way of your regulations,</p>
  <p class="sz">That I may observe it down to the last.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter119_verse34"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>34 </sup>
    </b>Make me understand, that I may observe your law</p>
  <p class="sz">And that I may keep it with the whole heart.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter119_verse35"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>35 </sup>
    </b>Cause me to tread in the pathway of your commandments,</p>
  <p class="sz">For in it I have taken delight.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter119_verse36"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>36 </sup>
    </b>Incline my heart to your reminders,</p>
  <p class="sz">And not to profits.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter119_verse37"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>37 </sup>
    </b>Make my eyes pass on from seeing what is worthless;</p>
  <p class="sz">Preserve me alive in your own way.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter119_verse38"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>38 </sup>
    </b>Carry out to your servant your saying</p>
  <p class="sz">That tends to the fear of you.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter119_verse39"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>39 </sup>
    </b>Make my reproach pass away, of which I have been scared,</p>
  <p class="sz">For your judicial decisions are good.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter119_verse40"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>40 </sup>
    </b>Look! I have longed for your orders.</p>
  <p class="sz">In your righteousness preserve me alive.</p>
  <p class="ss">
    <span class="smcap">ו </span>[<i>Waw</i>]</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter119_verse41"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>41 </sup>
    </b>And may your loving-kindnesses come to me, O Jehovah,</p>
  <p class="sz">Your salvation according to your saying,</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter119_verse42"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>42 </sup>
    </b>That I may answer the one reproaching me with a word,</p>
  <p class="sz">
    <a id="page816"></a>For I have trusted in your word.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter119_verse43"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>43 </sup>
    </b>And do not take away from my mouth the word of truth entirely,</p>
  <p class="sz">For I have waited for your own judicial decision.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter119_verse44"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>44 </sup>
    </b>And I will keep your law constantly,</p>
  <p class="sz">To time indefinite, even forever.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter119_verse45"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>45 </sup>
    </b>And I will walk about in a roomy place,</p>
  <p class="sz">For I have searched even for your orders.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter119_verse46"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>46 </sup>
    </b>I will also speak about your reminders in front of kings,</p>
  <p class="sz">And I shall not be ashamed.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter119_verse47"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>47 </sup>
    </b>And I shall show a fondness for your commandments</p>
  <p class="sz">That I have loved.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter119_verse48"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>48 </sup>
    </b>And I shall raise my palms to your commandments that I have loved,</p>
  <p class="sz">And I will concern myself with your regulations.</p>
  <p class="ss">
    <span class="smcap">ז </span>[<i>Za′yin</i>]</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter119_verse49"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>49 </sup>
    </b>Remember the word to your servant,</p>
  <p class="sz">For which you have made me wait.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter119_verse50"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>50 </sup>
    </b>This is my comfort in my affliction,</p>
  <p class="sz">For your own saying has preserved me alive.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter119_verse51"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>51 </sup>
    </b>The presumptuous ones themselves have derided me to the extreme.</p>
  <p class="sz">From your law I have not deviated.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter119_verse52"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>52 </sup>
    </b>I have remembered your judicial decisions from time indefinite, O Jehovah,</p>
  <p class="sz">And I find comfort for myself.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter119_verse53"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>53 </sup>
    </b>A raging heat itself has taken hold of me because of the wicked,</p>
  <p class="sz">Who are leaving your law.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter119_verse54"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>54 </sup>
    </b>Melodies your regulations have become to me</p>
  <p class="sz">In the house of my alien residences.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter119_verse55"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>55 </sup>
    </b>In the night I have remembered your name, O Jehovah,</p>
  <p class="sz">That I may keep your law.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter119_verse56"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>56 </sup>
    </b>Even this has become mine,</p>
  <p class="sz">Because your orders I have observed.</p>
  <p class="ss">
    <span class="smcap">ח </span>[<i>Chehth</i>]</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter119_verse57"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>57 </sup>
    </b>Jehovah is my share;</p>
  <p class="sz">I have promised to keep your words.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter119_verse58"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>58 </sup>
    </b>I have softened your face with all my heart.</p>
  <p class="sz">Show me favor according to your saying.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter119_verse59"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>59 </sup>
    </b>I have considered my ways,</p>
  <p class="sz">That I may turn back my feet to your reminders.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter119_verse60"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>60 </sup>
    </b>I hurried up, and I did not delay</p>
  <p class="sz">To keep your commandments.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter119_verse61"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>61 </sup>
    </b>The very ropes of the wicked ones surrounded me.</p>
  <p class="sz">Your law I did not forget.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter119_verse62"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>62 </sup>
    </b>At midnight I get up to give thanks to you</p>
  <p class="sz">For your righteous judicial decisions.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter119_verse63"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>63 </sup>
    </b>A partner I am of all those who do fear you,</p>
  <p class="sz">And of those keeping your orders.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter119_verse64"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>64 </sup>
    </b>Your loving-kindness, O Jehovah, has filled the earth.</p>
  <p class="sz">Teach me your own regulations.</p>
  <p class="ss">
    <span class="smcap">ט </span>[<i>Tehth</i>]</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter119_verse65"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>65 </sup>
    </b>You have dealt well indeed with your servant,</p>
  <p class="sz">O Jehovah, according to your word.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter119_verse66"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>66 </sup>
    </b>Teach me goodness, sensibleness and knowledge themselves,</p>
  <p class="sz">
    <a id="page817"></a>For in your commandments I have exercised faith.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter119_verse67"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>67 </sup>
    </b>Before I was under affliction I was sinning by mistake,</p>
  <p class="sz">But now I have kept your very saying.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter119_verse68"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>68 </sup>
    </b>You are good and are doing good.</p>
  <p class="sz">Teach me your regulations.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter119_verse69"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>69 </sup>
    </b>The presumptuous have smeared me with falsehood.</p>
  <p class="sz">As for me, with all my heart I shall observe your orders.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter119_verse70"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>70 </sup>
    </b>Their heart has become unfeeling just like fat.</p>
  <p class="sz">I, for my part, have been fond of your own law.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter119_verse71"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>71 </sup>
    </b>It is good for me that I have been afflicted,</p>
  <p class="sz">In order that I may learn your regulations.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter119_verse72"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>72 </sup>
    </b>The law of your mouth is good for me,</p>
  <p class="sz">More so than thousands of pieces of gold and silver.</p>
  <p class="ss">
    <span class="smcap">י </span>[<i>Yohdh</i>]</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter119_verse73"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>73 </sup>
    </b>Your own hands have made me, and they proceeded to fix me solidly.</p>
  <p class="sz">Make me understand, that I may learn your commandments.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter119_verse74"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>74 </sup>
    </b>Those fearing you are the ones that see me and rejoice,</p>
  <p class="sz">For I have waited for your own word.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter119_verse75"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>75 </sup>
    </b>I well know, O Jehovah, that your judicial decisions are righteousness</p>
  <p class="sz">And that with faithfulness you have afflicted me.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter119_verse76"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>76 </sup>
    </b>May your loving-kindness serve, please, to comfort me,</p>
  <p class="sz">According to your saying to your servant.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter119_verse77"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>77 </sup>
    </b>Let your mercies come to me, that I may keep living;</p>
  <p class="sz">For your law is what I am fond of.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter119_verse78"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>78 </sup>
    </b>Let the presumptuous ones be ashamed, for without cause they have misled me.</p>
  <p class="sz">As for me, I concern myself with your orders.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter119_verse79"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>79 </sup>
    </b>Let those fearing you turn back to me,</p>
  <p class="sz">Those also knowing your reminders.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter119_verse80"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>80 </sup>
    </b>Let my heart prove faultless in your regulations,</p>
  <p class="sz">In order that I may not be ashamed.</p>
  <p class="ss">
    <span class="smcap">כ </span>[<i>Kaph</i>]</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter119_verse81"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>81 </sup>
    </b>For your salvation my soul has pined away;</p>
  <p class="sz">For your word I have waited.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter119_verse82"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>82 </sup>
    </b>My eyes have pined away for your saying,</p>
  <p class="sz">While I say: “When will you comfort me?”</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter119_verse83"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>83 </sup>
    </b>For I have become like a skin bottle in the smoke.</p>
  <p class="sz">Your regulations I have not forgotten.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter119_verse84"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>84 </sup>
    </b>How many are the days of your servant?</p>
  <p class="sz">When will you execute judgment against those persecuting me?</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter119_verse85"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>85 </sup>
    </b>The presumptuous have excavated pitfalls to get me,</p>
  <p class="sz">Those who are not in accord with your law.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter119_verse86"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>86 </sup>
    </b>All your commandments are faithfulness itself.</p>
  <p class="sz">Without cause they have persecuted me. O help me.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter119_verse87"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>87 </sup>
    </b>In a little while they would have exterminated me in the earth;</p>
  <p class="sz">But I myself did not leave your orders.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="page818"></a>
    <a id="chapter119_verse88"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>88 </sup>
    </b>According to your loving-kindness preserve me alive,</p>
  <p class="sz">That I may keep the reminder of your mouth.</p>
  <p class="ss">
    <span class="smcap">ל </span>[<i>La′medh</i>]</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter119_verse89"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>89 </sup>
    </b>To time indefinite, O Jehovah,</p>
  <p class="sz">Your word is stationed in the heavens.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter119_verse90"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>90 </sup>
    </b>Your faithfulness is for generation after generation.</p>
  <p class="sz">You have solidly fixed the earth, that it may keep standing.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter119_verse91"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>91 </sup>
    </b>According to your judicial decisions they have stood till today,</p>
  <p class="sz">For they are all your servants.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter119_verse92"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>92 </sup>
    </b>If your law had not been what I am fond of,</p>
  <p class="sz">Then I should have perished in my affliction.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter119_verse93"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>93 </sup>
    </b>To time indefinite I shall not forget your orders,</p>
  <p class="sz">Because by them you have preserved me alive.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter119_verse94"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>94 </sup>
    </b>I am yours. O save me,</p>
  <p class="sz">Because I have searched for your own orders.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter119_verse95"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>95 </sup>
    </b>For me the wicked have waited, to destroy me.</p>
  <p class="sz">To your reminders I keep showing myself attentive.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter119_verse96"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>96 </sup>
    </b>To all perfection I have seen an end.</p>
  <p class="sz">Your commandment is very broad.</p>
  <p class="ss">
    <span class="smcap">מ </span>[<i>Mem</i>]</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter119_verse97"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>97 </sup>
    </b>How I do love your law!</p>
  <p class="sz">All day long it is my concern.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter119_verse98"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>98 </sup>
    </b>Wiser than my enemies your commandment makes me,</p>
  <p class="sz">Because to time indefinite it is mine.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter119_verse99"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>99 </sup>
    </b>More insight than all my teachers I have come to have,</p>
  <p class="sz">Because your reminders are a concern to me.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter119_verse100"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>100 </sup>
    </b>With more understanding than older men I behave,</p>
  <p class="sz">Because I have observed your own orders.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter119_verse101"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>101 </sup>
    </b>From every bad path I have restrained my feet,</p>
  <p class="sz">For the purpose that I may keep your word.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter119_verse102"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>102 </sup>
    </b>From your judicial decisions I have not turned aside,</p>
  <p class="sz">For you yourself have instructed me.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter119_verse103"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>103 </sup>
    </b>How smooth to my palate your sayings have been,</p>
  <p class="sz">More so than honey to my mouth!</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter119_verse104"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>104 </sup>
    </b>Owing to your orders I behave with understanding.</p>
  <p class="sz">That is why I have hated every false path.</p>
  <p class="ss">
    <span class="smcap">נ </span>[<i>Nun</i>]</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter119_verse105"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>105 </sup>
    </b>Your word is a lamp to my foot,</p>
  <p class="sz">And a light to my roadway.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter119_verse106"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>106 </sup>
    </b>I have made a sworn statement, and I will carry it out,</p>
  <p class="sz">To keep your righteous judicial decisions.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter119_verse107"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>107 </sup>
    </b>I have been afflicted to a great extent.</p>
  <p class="sz">O Jehovah, preserve me alive according to your word.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter119_verse108"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>108 </sup>
    </b>Please take pleasure in the voluntary offerings of my mouth, O Jehovah,</p>
  <p class="sz">And teach me your own judicial decisions.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter119_verse109"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>109 </sup>
    </b>My soul is in my palm constantly;</p>
  <p class="sz">But your law I have not forgotten.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="page819"></a>
    <a id="chapter119_verse110"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>110 </sup>
    </b>The wicked have set a trap for me,</p>
  <p class="sz">But from your orders I have not wandered.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter119_verse111"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>111 </sup>
    </b>I have taken your reminders as a possession to time indefinite,</p>
  <p class="sz">For they are the exultation of my heart.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter119_verse112"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>112 </sup>
    </b>I have inclined my heart to do your regulations</p>
  <p class="sz">To time indefinite, down to the last.</p>
  <p class="ss">
    <span class="smcap">ס </span>[<i>Sa′mekh</i>]</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter119_verse113"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>113 </sup>
    </b>The halfhearted ones I have hated,</p>
  <p class="sz">But your law I have loved.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter119_verse114"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>114 </sup>
    </b>You are my place of concealment and my shield.</p>
  <p class="sz">For your word I have waited.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter119_verse115"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>115 </sup>
    </b>Get away from me, <span class="smcap">YOU </span>evildoers,</p>
  <p class="sz">That I may observe the commandments of my God.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter119_verse116"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>116 </sup>
    </b>Support me according to your saying, that I may keep living,</p>
  <p class="sz">And do not put me to shame for my hope.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter119_verse117"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>117 </sup>
    </b>Sustain me, that I may be saved,</p>
  <p class="sz">And I shall gaze upon your regulations constantly.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter119_verse118"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>118 </sup>
    </b>You have tossed away all those straying from your regulations;</p>
  <p class="sz">For their trickiness is falsehood.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter119_verse119"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>119 </sup>
    </b>As scummy dross you have made all the wicked ones of the earth to cease.</p>
  <p class="sz">Therefore I have loved your reminders.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter119_verse120"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>120 </sup>
    </b>From the dread of you my flesh has had a creepy feeling;</p>
  <p class="sz">And because of your judicial decisions I have been afraid.</p>
  <p class="ss">
    <span class="smcap">ע </span>[<i>ʽA′yin</i>]</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter119_verse121"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>121 </sup>
    </b>I have executed judgment and righteousness.</p>
  <p class="sz">O do not abandon me to those defrauding me!</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter119_verse122"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>122 </sup>
    </b>Act as a surety for your servant for what is good.</p>
  <p class="sz">May the presumptuous ones not defraud me.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter119_verse123"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>123 </sup>
    </b>My very eyes have pined away for your salvation</p>
  <p class="sz">And for your righteous saying.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter119_verse124"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>124 </sup>
    </b>Do with your servant according to your loving-kindness,</p>
  <p class="sz">And teach me your own regulations.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter119_verse125"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>125 </sup>
    </b>I am your servant. Make me understand,</p>
  <p class="sz">That I may know your reminders.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter119_verse126"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>126 </sup>
    </b>It is the time for Jehovah to act.</p>
  <p class="sz">They have broken your law.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter119_verse127"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>127 </sup>
    </b>That is why I have loved your commandments</p>
  <p class="sz">More than gold, even refined gold.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter119_verse128"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>128 </sup>
    </b>That is why I have considered all orders regarding all things to be right;</p>
  <p class="sz">Every false path I have hated.</p>
  <p class="ss">
    <span class="smcap">פ </span>[<i>Peʼ</i>]</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter119_verse129"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>129 </sup>
    </b>Your reminders are wonderful.</p>
  <p class="sz">That is why my soul has observed them.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter119_verse130"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>130 </sup>
    </b>The very disclosure of your words gives light,</p>
  <p class="sz">Making the inexperienced ones understand.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter119_verse131"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>131 </sup>
    </b>My mouth I have opened wide, that I may pant,</p>
  <p class="sz">Because for your commandments I have longed.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="page820"></a>
    <a id="chapter119_verse132"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>132 </sup>
    </b>Turn to me and show me favor,</p>
  <p class="sz">According to your judicial decision toward those loving your name.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter119_verse133"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>133 </sup>
    </b>Fix my own steps solidly in your saying,</p>
  <p class="sz">And may no kind of hurtful thing domineer over me.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter119_verse134"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>134 </sup>
    </b>Redeem me from any defrauder of mankind,</p>
  <p class="sz">And I will keep your orders.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter119_verse135"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>135 </sup>
    </b>Make your own face shine upon your servant,</p>
  <p class="sz">And teach me your regulations.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter119_verse136"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>136 </sup>
    </b>Streams of water have run down my eyes</p>
  <p class="sz">Over the fact that they have not kept your law.</p>
  <p class="ss">
    <span class="smcap">צ </span>[<i>Tsa·dheh′</i>]</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter119_verse137"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>137 </sup>
    </b>You are righteous, O Jehovah,</p>
  <p class="sz">And your judicial decisions are upright.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter119_verse138"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>138 </sup>
    </b>You have commanded your reminders in righteousness</p>
  <p class="sz">And in exceeding faithfulness.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter119_verse139"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>139 </sup>
    </b>My ardor has made an end of me,</p>
  <p class="sz">Because my adversaries have forgotten your words.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter119_verse140"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>140 </sup>
    </b>Your saying is very much refined,</p>
  <p class="sz">And your own servant loves it.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter119_verse141"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>141 </sup>
    </b>I am insignificant and contemptible.</p>
  <p class="sz">Your orders I have not forgotten.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter119_verse142"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>142 </sup>
    </b>Your righteousness is a righteousness to time indefinite,</p>
  <p class="sz">And your law is truth.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter119_verse143"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>143 </sup>
    </b>Distress and difficulty themselves found me.</p>
  <p class="sz">Your commandments I was fond of.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter119_verse144"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>144 </sup>
    </b>The righteousness of your reminders is to time indefinite.</p>
  <p class="sz">Make me understand, that I may keep living.</p>
  <p class="ss">
    <span class="smcap">ק </span>[<i>Qohph</i>]</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter119_verse145"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>145 </sup>
    </b>I have called with my whole heart. Answer me, O Jehovah.</p>
  <p class="sz">Your regulations I will observe.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter119_verse146"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>146 </sup>
    </b>I have called upon you. O save me!</p>
  <p class="sz">And I will keep your reminders.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter119_verse147"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>147 </sup>
    </b>I have been up early in the morning twilight, that I may cry for help.</p>
  <p class="sz">For your words I have waited.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter119_verse148"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>148 </sup>
    </b>My eyes have been ahead of the night watches,</p>
  <p class="sz">For me to concern myself with your saying.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter119_verse149"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>149 </sup>
    </b>O do hear my own voice according to your loving-kindness.</p>
  <p class="sz">O Jehovah, according to your judicial decision preserve me alive.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter119_verse150"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>150 </sup>
    </b>Those in pursuit of loose conduct have come near;</p>
  <p class="sz">They have got far away from your own law.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter119_verse151"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>151 </sup>
    </b>You are near, O Jehovah,</p>
  <p class="sz">And all your commandments are truth.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter119_verse152"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>152 </sup>
    </b>Long ago I have known some of your reminders,</p>
  <p class="sz">For to time indefinite you have founded them.</p>
  <p class="ss">
    <span class="smcap">ר </span>[<i>Rehsh</i>]</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter119_verse153"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>153 </sup>
    </b>O see my affliction, and rescue me;</p>
  <p class="sz">For I have not forgotten your own law.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter119_verse154"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>154 </sup>
    </b>O do conduct my legal case and recover me;</p>
  <p class="sz">
    <a id="page821"></a>Preserve me alive in agreement with your saying.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter119_verse155"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>155 </sup>
    </b>Salvation is far away from the wicked ones,</p>
  <p class="sz">For they have not searched for your own regulations.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter119_verse156"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>156 </sup>
    </b>Many are your mercies, O Jehovah.</p>
  <p class="sz">According to your judicial decisions, O preserve me alive.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter119_verse157"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>157 </sup>
    </b>My persecutors and my adversaries are many.</p>
  <p class="sz">From your reminders I have not deviated.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter119_verse158"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>158 </sup>
    </b>I have seen those who are treacherous in dealing,</p>
  <p class="sz">And I do feel a loathing, because they have not kept your own saying.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter119_verse159"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>159 </sup>
    </b>O see that I have loved your own orders.</p>
  <p class="sz">O Jehovah, according to your loving-kindness preserve me alive.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter119_verse160"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>160 </sup>
    </b>The substance of your word is truth,</p>
  <p class="sz">And every righteous judicial decision of yours is to time indefinite.</p>
  <p class="ss">
    <span class="smcap">ש </span>[<i>Sin</i>] or [<i>Shin</i>]</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter119_verse161"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>161 </sup>
    </b>Princes themselves have persecuted me for no cause,</p>
  <p class="sz">But my heart has been in dread of your own words.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter119_verse162"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>162 </sup>
    </b>I am exulting over your saying</p>
  <p class="sz">Just as one does when finding much spoil.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter119_verse163"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>163 </sup>
    </b>Falsehood I have hated, and I do keep detesting it.</p>
  <p class="sz">Your law I have loved.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter119_verse164"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>164 </sup>
    </b>Seven times in the day I have praised you</p>
  <p class="sz">Because of your righteous judicial decisions.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter119_verse165"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>165 </sup>
    </b>Abundant peace belongs to those loving your law,</p>
  <p class="sz">And for them there is no stumbling block.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter119_verse166"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>166 </sup>
    </b>I have hoped for your salvation, O Jehovah,</p>
  <p class="sz">And I have done your own commandments.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter119_verse167"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>167 </sup>
    </b>My soul has kept your reminders,</p>
  <p class="sz">And I love them exceedingly.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter119_verse168"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>168 </sup>
    </b>I have kept your orders and your reminders,</p>
  <p class="sz">For all my ways are in front of you.</p>
  <p class="ss">
    <span class="smcap">ת </span>[<i>Taw</i>]</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter119_verse169"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>169 </sup>
    </b>May my entreating cry come near before you, O Jehovah.</p>
  <p class="sz">According to your word, O make me understand.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter119_verse170"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>170 </sup>
    </b>May my request for favor enter in before you.</p>
  <p class="sz">According to your saying, O deliver me.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter119_verse171"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>171 </sup>
    </b>May my lips bubble forth praise,</p>
  <p class="sz">For you teach me your regulations.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter119_verse172"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>172 </sup>
    </b>May my tongue sing forth your saying,</p>
  <p class="sz">For all your commandments are righteousness.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter119_verse173"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>173 </sup>
    </b>May your hand serve to help me,</p>
  <p class="sz">Because your orders I have chosen.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter119_verse174"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>174 </sup>
    </b>I have longed for your salvation, O Jehovah,</p>
  <p class="sz">And your law I am fond of.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter119_verse175"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>175 </sup>
    </b>May my soul keep living and praising you,</p>
  <p class="sz">And may your own judicial decisions help me.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter119_verse176"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>176 </sup>
    </b>I have wandered like a lost sheep. O look for your servant,</p>
  <p class="sz">For I have not forgotten <a id="page822"></a>your own commandments.</p>
</div>