<book>
  <p class="w_biblebookname">Psalms</p>
  <p class="sw">Of David.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter103"></a>
    <a id="chapter103_verse1"></a>
    <span class="w_ch">
      <b>103 </b>
    </span>Bless Jehovah, O my soul,</p>
  <p class="sz">Even everything within me, his holy name.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter103_verse2"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>2 </sup>
    </b>Bless Jehovah, O my soul,</p>
  <p class="sz">And do not forget all his doings,</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter103_verse3"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>3 </sup>
    </b>Him who is forgiving all your error,</p>
  <p class="sz">Who is healing all your maladies,</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter103_verse4"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>4 </sup>
    </b>Who is reclaiming your life from the very pit,</p>
  <p class="sz">Who is crowning you with loving-kindness and mercies,</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter103_verse5"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>5 </sup>
    </b>Who is satisfying your <a id="page798"></a>lifetime with what is good;</p>
  <p class="sz">Your youth keeps renewing itself just like that of an eagle.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter103_verse6"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>6 </sup>
    </b>Jehovah is executing acts of righteousness</p>
  <p class="sz">And judicial decisions for all those being defrauded.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter103_verse7"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>7 </sup>
    </b>He made known his ways to Moses,</p>
  <p class="sz">His dealings even to the sons of Israel.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter103_verse8"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>8 </sup>
    </b>Jehovah is merciful and gracious,</p>
  <p class="sz">Slow to anger and abundant in loving-kindness.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter103_verse9"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>9 </sup>
    </b>He will not for all time keep finding fault,</p>
  <p class="sz">Neither will he to time indefinite keep resentful.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter103_verse10"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>10 </sup>
    </b>He has not done to us even according to our sins;</p>
  <p class="sz">Nor according to our errors has he brought upon us what we deserve.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter103_verse11"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>11 </sup>
    </b>For as the heavens are higher than the earth,</p>
  <p class="sz">His loving-kindness is superior toward those fearing him.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter103_verse12"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>12 </sup>
    </b>As far off as the sunrise is from the sunset,</p>
  <p class="sz">So far off from us he has put our transgressions.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter103_verse13"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>13 </sup>
    </b>As a father shows mercy to his sons,</p>
  <p class="sz">Jehovah has shown mercy to those fearing him.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter103_verse14"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>14 </sup>
    </b>For he himself well knows the formation of us,</p>
  <p class="sz">Remembering that we are dust.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter103_verse15"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>15 </sup>
    </b>As for mortal man, his days are like those of green grass;</p>
  <p class="sz">Like a blossom of the field is the way he blossoms forth.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter103_verse16"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>16 </sup>
    </b>For a mere wind has to pass over it, and it is no more;</p>
  <p class="sz">And its place will acknowledge it no further.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter103_verse17"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>17 </sup>
    </b>But the loving-kindness of Jehovah is from time indefinite even to time indefinite</p>
  <p class="sz">Toward those fearing him,</p>
  <p class="sz">And his righteousness to the sons of sons,</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter103_verse18"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>18 </sup>
    </b>Toward those keeping his covenant</p>
  <p class="sz">And toward those remembering his orders so as to carry them out.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter103_verse19"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>19 </sup>
    </b>Jehovah himself has firmly established his throne in the very heavens;</p>
  <p class="sz">And over everything his own kingship has held domination.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter103_verse20"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>20 </sup>
    </b>Bless Jehovah, O <span class="smcap">YOU </span>angels of his, mighty in power, carrying out his word,</p>
  <p class="sz">By listening to the voice of his word.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter103_verse21"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>21 </sup>
    </b>Bless Jehovah, all <span class="smcap">YOU </span>armies of his,</p>
  <p class="sz">Y<span class="smcap">OU </span>ministers of his, doing his will.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter103_verse22"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>22 </sup>
    </b>Bless Jehovah, all <span class="smcap">YOU </span>his works,</p>
  <p class="sz">In all places of his domination.</p>
  <p class="sz">Bless Jehovah, O my soul.</p>
</book>