<book>
  <p class="w_biblebookname">Psalms</p>
  <p class="sw">A melody. A song of inauguration of the house. Of David.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter30"></a>
    <a id="chapter30_verse1"></a>
    <span class="w_ch">
      <b>30 </b>
    </span>I shall exalt you, O Jehovah, for you have drawn me up</p>
  <p class="sz">And you have not let my enemies rejoice over me.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter30_verse2"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>2 </sup>
    </b>O Jehovah my God, I cried to you for help, and you proceeded to heal me.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter30_verse3"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>3 </sup>
    </b>O Jehovah, you have brought up my soul from She′ol itself;</p>
  <p class="sz">You have kept me alive, that I should not go down into the pit.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter30_verse4"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>4 </sup>
    </b>Make melody to Jehovah, O <span class="smcap">YOU </span>loyal ones of his,</p>
  <p class="sz">Give thanks to his holy memorial;</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter30_verse5"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>5 </sup>
    </b>Because being under his anger is for a moment,</p>
  <p class="sz">Being under his goodwill is for a lifetime.</p>
  <p class="sz">In the evening weeping may take up lodging, but in the morning there is a joyful cry.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter30_verse6"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>6 </sup>
    </b>As for me, I have said in my ease:</p>
  <p class="sz">“Never shall I be made to totter.”</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter30_verse7"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>7 </sup>
    </b>O Jehovah, in your goodwill you have made my mountain to stand in strength.</p>
  <p class="sz">You concealed your face; I became one that is disturbed.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter30_verse8"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>8 </sup>
    </b>To you, O Jehovah, I kept calling;</p>
  <p class="sz">And to Jehovah I kept making entreaty for favor.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter30_verse9"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>9 </sup>
    </b>What profit is there in my blood when I go down to the pit?</p>
  <p class="sz">Will the dust laud you? Will it tell of your trueness?</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter30_verse10"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>10 </sup>
    </b>Hear, O Jehovah, and show me favor.</p>
  <p class="sz">O Jehovah, prove yourself my helper.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter30_verse11"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>11 </sup>
    </b>You have changed my mourning into dancing for me;</p>
  <p class="sz">You have loosened my sackcloth, and you keep me girded with rejoicing,</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter30_verse12"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>12 </sup>
    </b>In order that my glory may make melody to you and not keep silent.</p>
  <p class="sz">O Jehovah my God, to time indefinite I will laud you.</p>
</book>