<book>
  <p class="w_biblebookname">Psalms</p>
  <p class="sw">To the director. Of the sons of Ko′rah. Mas′kil.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter44"></a>
    <a id="chapter44_verse1"></a>
    <span class="w_ch">
      <b>44 </b>
    </span>O God, with our ears we have heard,</p>
  <p class="sz">Our forefathers themselves have recounted to us</p>
  <p class="sp">The activity that you performed in their days,</p>
  <p class="sz">In the days of long ago.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter44_verse2"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>2 </sup>
    </b>You yourself by your hand <a id="page749"></a>drove away even nations,</p>
  <p class="sz">And you proceeded to plant them instead.</p>
  <p class="sz">You went breaking national groups and sending them away.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter44_verse3"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>3 </sup>
    </b>For it was not by their own sword that they took possession of the land,</p>
  <p class="sz">And their own arm was not what brought them salvation.</p>
  <p class="sp">For it was your right hand and your arm and the light of your face,</p>
  <p class="sz">Because you took pleasure in them.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter44_verse4"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>4 </sup>
    </b>You yourself are my King, O God.</p>
  <p class="sz">Command grand salvation for Jacob.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter44_verse5"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>5 </sup>
    </b>By you we shall push our adversaries themselves;</p>
  <p class="sz">In your name we shall tread down those rising up against us.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter44_verse6"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>6 </sup>
    </b>For it was not in my bow that I kept trusting</p>
  <p class="sz">And it was not my sword that was saving me.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter44_verse7"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>7 </sup>
    </b>For you saved us from our adversaries,</p>
  <p class="sz">And those intensely hating us you put to shame.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter44_verse8"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>8 </sup>
    </b>In God we will offer praise all day long,</p>
  <p class="sz">And to time indefinite your name we shall laud. <i>Se′lah.</i></p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter44_verse9"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>9 </sup>
    </b>But now you have cast off and keep humiliating us,</p>
  <p class="sz">And you do not go forth with our armies.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter44_verse10"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>10 </sup>
    </b>You keep making us turn back from the adversary,</p>
  <p class="sz">And the very ones intensely hating us have pillaged for themselves.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter44_verse11"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>11 </sup>
    </b>You give us up like sheep, as something to eat,</p>
  <p class="sz">And among the nations you have scattered us.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter44_verse12"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>12 </sup>
    </b>You sell your people for no value at all,</p>
  <p class="sz">And you have made no wealth by the price for them.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter44_verse13"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>13 </sup>
    </b>You set us as a reproach to our neighbors,</p>
  <p class="sz">A derision and jeering to those all around us.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter44_verse14"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>14 </sup>
    </b>You set us as a proverbial saying among the nations,</p>
  <p class="sz">A shaking of the head among the national groups.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter44_verse15"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>15 </sup>
    </b>All day long my humiliation is in front of me,</p>
  <p class="sz">And the shame of my own face has covered me,</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter44_verse16"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>16 </sup>
    </b>Due to the voice of the one reproaching and speaking abusively,</p>
  <p class="sz">Because of the enemy and the one taking his revenge.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter44_verse17"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>17 </sup>
    </b>All this is what has come upon us, and we have not forgotten you,</p>
  <p class="sz">And we have not acted falsely in your covenant.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter44_verse18"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>18 </sup>
    </b>Our heart has not turned faithlessly back,</p>
  <p class="sz">Nor do our footsteps deviate from your path.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter44_verse19"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>19 </sup>
    </b>For you have crushed us in the place of jackals,</p>
  <p class="sz">And you cover us over with deep shadow.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter44_verse20"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>20 </sup>
    </b>If we have forgotten the name of our God,</p>
  <p class="sz">Or we spread out our palms to a strange god,</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter44_verse21"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>21 </sup>
    </b>Will not God himself search this out?</p>
  <p class="sz">For he is aware of the secrets of the heart.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter44_verse22"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>22 </sup>
    </b>But for your sake we have been killed all day long;</p>
  <p class="sz">We have been accounted as sheep for slaughtering.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter44_verse23"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>23 </sup>
    </b>Do arouse yourself. Why do you keep sleeping, O Jehovah?</p>
  <p class="sz">Do awake. Do not keep casting off forever.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter44_verse24"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>24 </sup>
    </b>Why do you keep your very face concealed?</p>
  <p class="sz">
    <a id="page750"></a>Why do you forget our affliction and our oppression?</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter44_verse25"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>25 </sup>
    </b>For our soul has bowed down to the dust itself;</p>
  <p class="sz">Our belly has clung to the very earth.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter44_verse26"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>26 </sup>
    </b>Do arise in assistance to us</p>
  <p class="sz">And redeem us for the sake of your loving-kindness.</p>
</book>