<book>
  <p class="w_biblebookname">Psalms</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter91"></a>
    <a id="chapter91_verse1"></a>
    <span class="w_ch">
      <b>91 </b>
    </span>Anyone dwelling in the secret place of the Most High</p>
  <p class="sz">Will procure himself lodging under the very shadow of the Almighty One.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter91_verse2"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>2 </sup>
    </b>I will say to Jehovah: “You are my refuge and my stronghold,</p>
  <p class="sz">My God, in whom I will trust.”</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter91_verse3"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>3 </sup>
    </b>For he himself will deliver you from the trap of the birdcatcher,</p>
  <p class="sz">From the pestilence causing adversities.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter91_verse4"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>4 </sup>
    </b>With his pinions he will block approach to you,</p>
  <p class="sz">And under his wings you will take refuge.</p>
  <p class="sz">His trueness will be a large shield and bulwark.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter91_verse5"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>5 </sup>
    </b>You will not be afraid of anything dreadful by night,</p>
  <p class="sz">Nor of the arrow that flies by day,</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter91_verse6"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>6 </sup>
    </b>Nor of the pestilence that walks in the gloom,</p>
  <p class="sz">Nor of the destruction that despoils at midday.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter91_verse7"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>7 </sup>
    </b>A thousand will fall at your very side</p>
  <p class="sz">And ten thousand at your right hand;</p>
  <p class="sz">To you it will not come near.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter91_verse8"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>8 </sup>
    </b>Only with your eyes will you look on</p>
  <p class="sz">And see the retribution itself of the wicked ones.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter91_verse9"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>9 </sup>
    </b>Because you said: “Jehovah is my refuge,”</p>
  <p class="sz">You have made the Most High himself your dwelling;</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter91_verse10"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>10 </sup>
    </b>No calamity will befall you,</p>
  <p class="sz">And not even a plague will draw near to your tent.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter91_verse11"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>11 </sup>
    </b>For he will give his own angels a command concerning you,</p>
  <p class="sz">To guard you in all your ways.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter91_verse12"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>12 </sup>
    </b>Upon their hands they will carry you,</p>
  <p class="sz">That you may not strike your foot against any stone.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter91_verse13"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>13 </sup>
    </b>Upon the young lion and the cobra you will tread;</p>
  <p class="sz">You will trample down the maned young lion and the big snake.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter91_verse14"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>14 </sup>
    </b>Because on me he has set his affection,</p>
  <p class="sz">I shall also provide him with escape.</p>
  <p class="sz">I shall protect him because he has come to know my name.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter91_verse15"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>15 </sup>
    </b>He will call upon me, and I shall answer him.</p>
  <p class="sz">I shall be with him in distress.</p>
  <p class="sz">I shall rescue him and glorify him.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter91_verse16"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>16 </sup>
    </b>With length of days I shall satisfy him,</p>
  <p class="sz">And I shall cause him to see salvation by me.</p>
</book>