<book>
  <p class="w_biblebookname">Psalms</p>
  <p class="sw">To the director. Of the sons of Ko′rah. A melody.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter49"></a>
    <a id="chapter49_verse1"></a>
    <span class="w_ch">
      <b>49 </b>
    </span>Hear this, all <span class="smcap">YOU </span>peoples.</p>
  <p class="sz">Give ear, all <span class="smcap">YOU </span>inhabitants of the system of things,</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter49_verse2"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>2 </sup>
    </b>Y<span class="smcap">OU </span>sons of humankind as well as <span class="smcap">YOU </span>sons of man,</p>
  <p class="sz">You rich one and you poor one together.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter49_verse3"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>3 </sup>
    </b>My own mouth will speak things of wisdom,</p>
  <p class="sz">And the meditation of my heart will be of things of understanding.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter49_verse4"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>4 </sup>
    </b>To a proverbial utterance I shall incline my ear;</p>
  <p class="sz">On a harp I shall open up my riddle.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter49_verse5"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>5 </sup>
    </b>Why should I be afraid in the days of evil,</p>
  <p class="sz">When the very error of my supplanters surrounds me?</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter49_verse6"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>6 </sup>
    </b>Those who are trusting in their means of maintenance,</p>
  <p class="sz">And who keep boasting about the abundance of their riches,</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter49_verse7"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>7 </sup>
    </b>Not one of them can by any means redeem even a brother,</p>
  <p class="sz">Nor give to God a ransom for him;</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter49_verse8"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>8 </sup>
    </b>(And the redemption price of their soul is so precious</p>
  <p class="sz">That it has ceased to time indefinite)</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="page753"></a>
    <a id="chapter49_verse9"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>9 </sup>
    </b>That he should still live forever and not see the pit.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter49_verse10"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>10 </sup>
    </b>For he sees that even the wise ones die,</p>
  <p class="sz">Together the stupid one and the unreasoning one perish,</p>
  <p class="sz">And they must leave to others their means of maintenance.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter49_verse11"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>11 </sup>
    </b>Their inward wish is that their houses may be to time indefinite,</p>
  <p class="sz">Their tabernacles to generation after generation.</p>
  <p class="sz">They have called their landed estates by their names.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter49_verse12"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>12 </sup>
    </b>And yet earthling man, though in honor, cannot keep lodging;</p>
  <p class="sz">He is indeed comparable with the beasts that have been destroyed.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter49_verse13"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>13 </sup>
    </b>This is the way of those who have stupidity,</p>
  <p class="sz">And of those coming after them who take pleasure in their very mouthings. <i>Se′lah.</i></p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter49_verse14"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>14 </sup>
    </b>Like sheep they have been appointed to She′ol itself;</p>
  <p class="sz">Death itself will shepherd them;</p>
  <p class="sz">And the upright ones will have them in subjection in the morning,</p>
  <p class="sp">And their forms are due to wear away;</p>
  <p class="sz">She′ol rather than a lofty abode is for each one.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter49_verse15"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>15 </sup>
    </b>However, God himself will redeem my soul from the hand of She′ol,</p>
  <p class="sz">For he will receive me. <i>Se′lah.</i></p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter49_verse16"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>16 </sup>
    </b>Do not be afraid because some man gains riches,</p>
  <p class="sz">Because the glory of his house increases,</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter49_verse17"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>17 </sup>
    </b>For at his death he cannot take along anything at all;</p>
  <p class="sz">His glory will not go down along with him himself.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter49_verse18"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>18 </sup>
    </b>For during his lifetime he kept blessing his own soul;</p>
  <p class="sz">(And people will laud you because you do well for yourself)</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter49_verse19"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>19 </sup>
    </b>His soul finally comes only as far as the generation of his forefathers.</p>
  <p class="sz">Nevermore will they see the light.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter49_verse20"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>20 </sup>
    </b>Earthling man, although in honor, who does not understand,</p>
  <p class="sz">Is indeed comparable with the beasts that have been destroyed.</p>
</book>