<book>
  <p class="w_biblebookname">Psalms</p>
  <p class="ss">BOOK THREE</p>
  <p class="ss">(Psalms 73 – 89)</p>
  <p class="sw">A melody of A′saph.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter73"></a>
    <a id="chapter73_verse1"></a>
    <span class="w_ch">
      <b>73 </b>
    </span>God is indeed good to Israel, to those clean in heart.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter73_verse2"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>2 </sup>
    </b>As for me, my feet had almost turned aside,</p>
  <p class="sz">My steps had nearly been made to slip.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter73_verse3"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>3 </sup>
    </b>For I became envious of the boasters,</p>
  <p class="sz">When I would see the very peace of wicked people.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter73_verse4"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>4 </sup>
    </b>For they have no deathly pangs;</p>
  <p class="sz">And their paunch is fat.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter73_verse5"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>5 </sup>
    </b>They are not even in the trouble of mortal man,</p>
  <p class="sz">And they are not plagued the same as other men.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter73_verse6"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>6 </sup>
    </b>Therefore haughtiness has served as a necklace to them;</p>
  <p class="sz">Violence envelops them as a garment.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter73_verse7"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>7 </sup>
    </b>Their eye has bulged from fatness;</p>
  <p class="sz">They have exceeded the imaginations of the heart.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter73_verse8"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>8 </sup>
    </b>They scoff and speak about what is bad;</p>
  <p class="sz">About defrauding they speak in an elevated style.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter73_verse9"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>9 </sup>
    </b>They have put their mouth in the very heavens,</p>
  <p class="sz">And their tongue itself walks about in the earth.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter73_verse10"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>10 </sup>
    </b>Therefore he brings his people back hither,</p>
  <p class="sz">And the waters of what is full are drained out for them.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter73_verse11"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>11 </sup>
    </b>And they have said: “How has God come to know?</p>
  <p class="sz">And does there exist knowledge in the Most High?”</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter73_verse12"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>12 </sup>
    </b>Look! These are the wicked, who are at ease indefinitely.</p>
  <p class="sz">They have increased their means of maintenance.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter73_verse13"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>13 </sup>
    </b>Surely it is in vain that I have cleansed my heart</p>
  <p class="sz">And that I wash my hands in innocence itself.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter73_verse14"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>14 </sup>
    </b>And I came to be plagued all day long,</p>
  <p class="sz">And my correction is every morning.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter73_verse15"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>15 </sup>
    </b>If I had said: “I will tell a story like that,”</p>
  <p class="sz">Look! against the generation of your sons</p>
  <p class="sz">I should have acted treacherously.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter73_verse16"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>16 </sup>
    </b>And I kept considering so as to know this;</p>
  <p class="sz">It was a trouble in my eyes,</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter73_verse17"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>17 </sup>
    </b>Until I proceeded to come into the grand sanctuary of God.</p>
  <p class="sz">I wanted to discern their future.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter73_verse18"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>18 </sup>
    </b>Surely on slippery ground is where you place them.</p>
  <p class="sz">You have made them fall to ruins.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter73_verse19"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>19 </sup>
    </b>O how they have become an object of astonishment as in a moment!</p>
  <p class="sz">How they have reached their end, have been brought to their finish through sudden terrors!</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter73_verse20"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>20 </sup>
    </b>Like a dream after awaking, O Jehovah,</p>
  <p class="sz">So when arousing yourself you will despise their very image.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="page773"></a>
    <a id="chapter73_verse21"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>21 </sup>
    </b>For my heart was soured</p>
  <p class="sz">And in my kidneys I was sharply pained,</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter73_verse22"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>22 </sup>
    </b>And I was unreasoning and I could not know;</p>
  <p class="sz">I became as mere beasts from your standpoint.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter73_verse23"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>23 </sup>
    </b>But I am constantly with you;</p>
  <p class="sz">You have taken hold of my right hand.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter73_verse24"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>24 </sup>
    </b>With your counsel you will lead me,</p>
  <p class="sz">And afterward you will take me even to glory.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter73_verse25"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>25 </sup>
    </b>Whom do I have in the heavens?</p>
  <p class="sz">And besides you I do have no other delight on the earth.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter73_verse26"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>26 </sup>
    </b>My organism and my heart have failed.</p>
  <p class="sz">God is the rock of my heart and my share to time indefinite.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter73_verse27"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>27 </sup>
    </b>For, look! the very ones keeping away from you will perish.</p>
  <p class="sz">You will certainly silence every one immorally leaving you.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter73_verse28"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>28 </sup>
    </b>But as for me, the drawing near to God is good for me.</p>
  <p class="sz">In the Sovereign Lord Jehovah I have placed my refuge,</p>
  <p class="sz">To declare all your works.</p>
</book>