<book>
  <p class="w_biblebookname">Psalms</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter118"></a>
    <a id="chapter118_verse1"></a>
    <span class="w_ch">
      <b>118 </b>
    </span>Give thanks to Jehovah, <span class="smcap">YOU </span>people, for he is good;</p>
  <p class="sz">For his loving-kindness is to time indefinite.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter118_verse2"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>2 </sup>
    </b>Let Israel now say:</p>
  <p class="sz">“For his loving-kindness is to time indefinite.”</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter118_verse3"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>3 </sup>
    </b>Let those of the house of Aaron now say:</p>
  <p class="sz">“For his loving-kindness is to time indefinite.”</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter118_verse4"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>4 </sup>
    </b>Let those fearing Jehovah now say:</p>
  <p class="sz">“For his loving-kindness is to time indefinite.”</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter118_verse5"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>5 </sup>
    </b>Out of the distressing circumstances I called upon Jah;</p>
  <p class="sz">Jah answered and put me into a roomy place.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter118_verse6"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>6 </sup>
    </b>Jehovah is on my side; I shall not fear.</p>
  <p class="sz">What can earthling man do to me?</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter118_verse7"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>7 </sup>
    </b>Jehovah is on my side among those helping me,</p>
  <p class="sz">So that I myself shall look upon those hating me.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter118_verse8"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>8 </sup>
    </b>It is better to take refuge in Jehovah</p>
  <p class="sz">Than to trust in earthling man.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter118_verse9"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>9 </sup>
    </b>It is better to take refuge in Jehovah</p>
  <p class="sz">Than to trust in nobles.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter118_verse10"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>10 </sup>
    </b>All the nations themselves surrounded me.</p>
  <p class="sz">It was in the name of Jehovah that I kept holding them off.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter118_verse11"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>11 </sup>
    </b>They surrounded me, yes, they had me surrounded.</p>
  <p class="sz">It was in the name of Jehovah that I kept holding them off.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter118_verse12"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>12 </sup>
    </b>They surrounded me like bees;</p>
  <p class="sz">They were extinguished like a fire of thornbushes.</p>
  <p class="sz">It was in the name of Jehovah that I kept holding them off.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter118_verse13"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>13 </sup>
    </b>You pushed me hard that I should fall,</p>
  <p class="sz">But Jehovah himself helped me.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter118_verse14"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>14 </sup>
    </b>Jah is my shelter and my might,</p>
  <p class="sz">And to me he becomes salvation.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter118_verse15"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>15 </sup>
    </b>The voice of a joyful cry and salvation</p>
  <p class="sz">Is in the tents of the righteous ones.</p>
  <p class="sb">The right hand of Jehovah is demonstrating vital energy.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter118_verse16"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>16 </sup>
    </b>The right hand of Jehovah is exalting itself;</p>
  <p class="sz">The right hand of Jehovah is demonstrating vital energy.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter118_verse17"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>17 </sup>
    </b>I shall not die, but I shall keep living,</p>
  <p class="sz">That I may declare the works of Jah.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter118_verse18"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>18 </sup>
    </b>Jah corrected me severely,</p>
  <p class="sz">But he did not give me over to death itself.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter118_verse19"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>19 </sup>
    </b>Open to me the gates of righteousness, <span class="smcap">YOU </span>people.</p>
  <p class="sz">I shall go into them; I shall laud Jah.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter118_verse20"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>20 </sup>
    </b>This is the gate of Jehovah.</p>
  <p class="sz">The righteous themselves will go into it.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter118_verse21"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>21 </sup>
    </b>I shall laud you, for you answered me</p>
  <p class="sz">And you came to be my salvation.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter118_verse22"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>22 </sup>
    </b>The stone that the builders rejected</p>
  <p class="sz">Has become the head of the corner.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter118_verse23"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>23 </sup>
    </b>This has come to be from Jehovah himself;</p>
  <p class="sz">It is wonderful in our eyes.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter118_verse24"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>24 </sup>
    </b>This is the day that Jehovah has made;</p>
  <p class="sz">We will be joyful and rejoice in it.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="page814"></a>
    <a id="chapter118_verse25"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>25 </sup>
    </b>Ah, now, Jehovah, do save, please!</p>
  <p class="sz">Ah, now, Jehovah, do grant success, please!</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter118_verse26"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>26 </sup>
    </b>Blessed be the One coming in the name of Jehovah;</p>
  <p class="sz">We have blessed <span class="smcap">YOU </span>people out of the house of Jehovah.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter118_verse27"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>27 </sup>
    </b>Jehovah is the Divine One,</p>
  <p class="sz">And he gives us light.</p>
  <p class="sp">Bind the festival procession with boughs, O <span class="smcap">YOU </span>people,</p>
  <p class="sz">As far as the horns of the altar.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter118_verse28"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>28 </sup>
    </b>You are my Divine One, and I shall laud you;</p>
  <p class="sz">My God—I shall exalt you.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter118_verse29"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>29 </sup>
    </b>Give thanks to Jehovah, <span class="smcap">YOU </span>people, for he is good;</p>
  <p class="sz">For his loving-kindness is to time indefinite.</p>
</book>