<div>
  <p class="w_biblebookname">Psalms</p>
  <p class="sw">Of David.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter28"></a>
    <a id="chapter28_verse1"></a>
    <span class="w_ch">
      <b>28 </b>
    </span>To you, O Jehovah, I keep calling.</p>
  <p class="sz">O my Rock, do not be deaf to me,</p>
  <p class="sp">That you may not keep still toward me</p>
  <p class="sz">And I do not have to become like those going down to the pit.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter28_verse2"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>2 </sup>
    </b>Hear the voice of my entreaties when I cry to you for help,</p>
  <p class="sz">When I raise my hands to the innermost room of your holy place.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter28_verse3"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>3 </sup>
    </b>Do not draw me along with wicked people and with practicers of what is hurtful,</p>
  <p class="sz">Those who are speaking peace with their companions but in whose hearts is what is bad.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter28_verse4"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>4 </sup>
    </b>Give to them according to their acting</p>
  <p class="sz">And according to the badness of their practices.</p>
  <p class="sp">According to the work of their hands do you give to them.</p>
  <p class="sz">Pay back to them their own doing.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter28_verse5"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>5 </sup>
    </b>For they have no regard for the activities of Jehovah,</p>
  <p class="sz">Nor for the work of his hands.</p>
  <p class="sz">He will tear them down and not build them up.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter28_verse6"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>6 </sup>
    </b>Blessed be Jehovah, for he has heard the voice of my entreaties.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter28_verse7"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>7 </sup>
    </b>Jehovah is my strength and my shield.</p>
  <p class="sz">In him my heart has trusted,</p>
  <p class="sp">And I have been helped, so that my heart exults,</p>
  <p class="sz">And with my song I shall laud him.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter28_verse8"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>8 </sup>
    </b>Jehovah is a strength to his people,</p>
  <p class="sz">And he is a stronghold of the grand salvation of his anointed one.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter28_verse9"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>9 </sup>
    </b>Do save your people, and bless your inheritance;</p>
  <p class="sz">And shepherd them and carry them to time indefinite.</p>
</div>