<book>
  <p class="w_biblebookname">Psalms</p>
  <p class="sw">A mas′kil. Of A′saph.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter74"></a>
    <a id="chapter74_verse1"></a>
    <span class="w_ch">
      <b>74 </b>
    </span>Why, O God, have you cast off forever?</p>
  <p class="sz">Why does your anger keep smoking against the flock of your pasturage?</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter74_verse2"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>2 </sup>
    </b>Remember your assembly that you acquired long ago,</p>
  <p class="sz">The tribe that you redeemed as your inheritance,</p>
  <p class="sz">This Mount Zion in which you have resided.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter74_verse3"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>3 </sup>
    </b>Do lift up your steps to the long-lasting desolations.</p>
  <p class="sz">Everything the enemy has treated badly in the holy place.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter74_verse4"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>4 </sup>
    </b>Those showing hostility to you have roared in the middle of your meeting place.</p>
  <p class="sz">They have set their own signs as the signs.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter74_verse5"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>5 </sup>
    </b>One is notorious in being like him that brings up axes on high against a thicket of trees.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter74_verse6"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>6 </sup>
    </b>And now the very engravings of it, one and all, they strike even with hatchet and iron-tipped beams.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter74_verse7"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>7 </sup>
    </b>They have thrust your sanctuary into the fire itself.</p>
  <p class="sz">They have profaned the tabernacle of your name to the very earth.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter74_verse8"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>8 </sup>
    </b>They, even their offspring, have said together in their own heart:</p>
  <p class="sz">“All the meeting places of God must be burned in the land.”</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter74_verse9"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>9 </sup>
    </b>Our signs we have not seen; there is no prophet anymore,</p>
  <p class="sz">And there is no one with us knowing how long.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter74_verse10"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>10 </sup>
    </b>How long, O God, will the adversary keep reproaching?</p>
  <p class="sz">Will the enemy keep treating your name with disrespect forever?</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter74_verse11"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>11 </sup>
    </b>Why do you keep your hand, even your right hand, withdrawn</p>
  <p class="sz">From the midst of your bosom to make an end of us?</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter74_verse12"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>12 </sup>
    </b>And yet God is my King from long ago,</p>
  <p class="sz">The One performing grand salvation in the midst of the earth.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter74_verse13"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>13 </sup>
    </b>You yourself stirred up the sea with your own strength;</p>
  <p class="sz">You broke the heads of the <a id="page774"></a>sea monsters in the waters.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter74_verse14"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>14 </sup>
    </b>You yourself crushed to pieces the heads of Le·vi′a·than.</p>
  <p class="sz">You proceeded to give it as food to the people, to those inhabiting the waterless regions.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter74_verse15"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>15 </sup>
    </b>You were the One that split the spring and the torrent;</p>
  <p class="sz">You yourself dried up ever-flowing rivers.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter74_verse16"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>16 </sup>
    </b>To you the day belongs; also, to you the night belongs.</p>
  <p class="sz">You yourself prepared the luminary, even the sun.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter74_verse17"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>17 </sup>
    </b>It was you that set up all the boundaries of the earth;</p>
  <p class="sz">Summer and winter—you yourself formed them.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter74_verse18"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>18 </sup>
    </b>Remember this: The enemy himself has reproached, O Jehovah,</p>
  <p class="sz">And a senseless people have treated your name with disrespect.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter74_verse19"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>19 </sup>
    </b>Do not give to the wild beast the soul of your turtledove.</p>
  <p class="sz">Do not forget the very life of your afflicted ones forever.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter74_verse20"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>20 </sup>
    </b>Take a look at the covenant,</p>
  <p class="sz">For the dark places of the earth have become full of the abodes of violence.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter74_verse21"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>21 </sup>
    </b>O may the crushed one not return humiliated.</p>
  <p class="sz">May the afflicted one and the poor one praise your name.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter74_verse22"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>22 </sup>
    </b>Do arise, O God, do conduct your own case at law.</p>
  <p class="sz">Remember your reproach from the senseless one all day long.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter74_verse23"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>23 </sup>
    </b>Do not forget the voice of those showing hostility to you.</p>
  <p class="sz">The noise of those rising up against you is ascending constantly.</p>
</book>