<div>
  <p class="w_biblebookname">Psalms</p>
  <p class="ss">
    <span class="smcap">ל </span>[<i>La′medh</i>]</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter10"></a>
    <a id="chapter10_verse1"></a>
    <span class="w_ch">
      <b>10 </b>
    </span>Why, O Jehovah, do you keep standing afar off?</p>
  <p class="sz">Why do you keep yourself hid in times of distress?</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter10_verse2"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>2 </sup>
    </b>In his haughtiness the wicked one hotly pursues the afflicted one;</p>
  <p class="sz">They get caught by the ideas that they have thought up.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter10_verse3"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>3 </sup>
    </b>For the wicked has praised himself over the selfish longing of his soul,</p>
  <p class="sz">And the one making undue profit has blessed himself;</p>
  <p class="ss">
    <span class="smcap">נ </span>[<i>Nun</i>]</p>
  <p class="sz">He has disrespected Jehovah.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter10_verse4"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>4 </sup>
    </b>The wicked one according to his superciliousness makes no search;</p>
  <p class="sz">All his ideas are: “There is no God.”</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter10_verse5"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>5 </sup>
    </b>His ways keep prospering all the time.</p>
  <p class="sz">Your judicial decisions are high up out of his range;</p>
  <p class="sz">As for all those showing hostility to him, he puffs at them.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="page721"></a>
    <a id="chapter10_verse6"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>6 </sup>
    </b>He has said in his heart: “I shall not be made to totter;</p>
  <p class="sz">For generation after generation I shall be one who is in no calamity.”</p>
  <p class="ss">
    <span class="smcap">פ </span>[<i>Peʼ</i>]</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter10_verse7"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>7 </sup>
    </b>His mouth is full of oaths and of deceptions and of oppression.</p>
  <p class="sz">Under his tongue are trouble and what is hurtful.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter10_verse8"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>8 </sup>
    </b>He sits in an ambush of settlements;</p>
  <p class="sz">From concealed places he will kill someone innocent.</p>
  <p class="ss">
    <span class="smcap">ע </span>[<i>ʽA′yin</i>]</p>
  <p class="sz">His eyes are on the lookout for someone unfortunate.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter10_verse9"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>9 </sup>
    </b>He keeps lying in wait in the concealed place like a lion in his covert.</p>
  <p class="sz">He keeps lying in wait to carry off some afflicted one by force.</p>
  <p class="sz">He carries off the afflicted one by force when he draws his net shut.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter10_verse10"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>10 </sup>
    </b>He is crushed, he bows down,</p>
  <p class="sz">And the army of dejected ones has to fall into his strong claws.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter10_verse11"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>11 </sup>
    </b>He has said in his heart: “God has forgotten.</p>
  <p class="sz">He has concealed his face.</p>
  <p class="sz">He will certainly never see it.”</p>
  <p class="ss">
    <span class="smcap">ק </span>[<i>Qohph</i>]</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter10_verse12"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>12 </sup>
    </b>Do arise, O Jehovah. O God, lift up your hand.</p>
  <p class="sz">Do not forget the afflicted ones.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter10_verse13"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>13 </sup>
    </b>Why is it that the wicked one has disrespected God?</p>
  <p class="sz">He has said in his heart: “You will not require an accounting.”</p>
  <p class="ss">
    <span class="smcap">ר </span>[<i>Rehsh</i>]</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter10_verse14"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>14 </sup>
    </b>For you yourself have seen trouble and vexation.</p>
  <p class="sz">You keep looking on, to get them into your hand.</p>
  <p class="sp">To you the unfortunate one, the fatherless boy, commits himself.</p>
  <p class="sz">You yourself have become his helper.</p>
  <p class="ss">
    <span class="smcap">ש </span>[<i>Shin</i>]</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter10_verse15"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>15 </sup>
    </b>Break the arm of the wicked and bad one.</p>
  <p class="sz">May you search after his wickedness until you find no more.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter10_verse16"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>16 </sup>
    </b>Jehovah is King to time indefinite, even forever.</p>
  <p class="sz">The nations have perished out of his earth.</p>
  <p class="ss">
    <span class="smcap">ת </span>[<i>Taw</i>]</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter10_verse17"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>17 </sup>
    </b>The desire of the meek ones you will certainly hear, O Jehovah.</p>
  <p class="sz">You will prepare their heart.</p>
  <p class="sz">You will pay attention with your ear,</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter10_verse18"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>18 </sup>
    </b>To judge the fatherless boy and the crushed one,</p>
  <p class="sz">That mortal man who is of the earth may no more cause trembling.</p>
</div>