<div>
  <p class="w_biblebookname">Psalms</p>
  <p class="sw">
    <a id="page752"></a>A song. A melody of the sons of Ko′rah.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter48"></a>
    <a id="chapter48_verse1"></a>
    <span class="w_ch">
      <b>48 </b>
    </span>Jehovah is great and much to be praised</p>
  <p class="sz">In the city of our God, in his holy mountain.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter48_verse2"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>2 </sup>
    </b>Pretty for loftiness, the exultation of the whole earth,</p>
  <p class="sz">Is Mount Zion on the remote sides of the north,</p>
  <p class="sz">The town of the Grand King.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter48_verse3"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>3 </sup>
    </b>In her dwelling towers God himself has become known as a secure height.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter48_verse4"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>4 </sup>
    </b>For, look! the kings themselves have met by appointment,</p>
  <p class="sz">They have passed by together.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter48_verse5"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>5 </sup>
    </b>They themselves saw; and so they were amazed.</p>
  <p class="sz">They got disturbed, they were sent running in panic.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter48_verse6"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>6 </sup>
    </b>Trembling itself took hold of them there,</p>
  <p class="sz">Birth pangs like those of a woman giving birth.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter48_verse7"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>7 </sup>
    </b>With an east wind you wreck the ships of Tar′shish.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter48_verse8"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>8 </sup>
    </b>Just as we have heard, so we have seen</p>
  <p class="sz">In the city of Jehovah of armies, in the city of our God.</p>
  <p class="sz">God himself will firmly establish it to time indefinite. <i>Se′lah.</i></p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter48_verse9"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>9 </sup>
    </b>We have pondered, O God, over your loving-kindness</p>
  <p class="sz">In the midst of your temple.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter48_verse10"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>10 </sup>
    </b>Like your name, O God, so your praise is</p>
  <p class="sz">To the borders of the earth.</p>
  <p class="sz">Your right hand is full of righteousness itself.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter48_verse11"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>11 </sup>
    </b>May Mount Zion rejoice,</p>
  <p class="sz">May the dependent towns of Judah be joyful, on account of your judicial decisions.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter48_verse12"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>12 </sup>
    </b>March around Zion, <span class="smcap">YOU </span>people, and go about it,</p>
  <p class="sz">Count its towers.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter48_verse13"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>13 </sup>
    </b>Set <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>hearts upon its rampart.</p>
  <p class="sz">Inspect its dwelling towers,</p>
  <p class="sz">In order that <span class="smcap">YOU </span>may recount it to the future generation.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter48_verse14"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>14 </sup>
    </b>For this God is our God to time indefinite, even forever.</p>
  <p class="sz">He himself will guide us until we die.</p>
</div>