<div>
  <p class="w_biblebookname">Psalms</p>
  <p class="sw">Of David.</p>
  <p class="ss">
    <span class="smcap">א </span>[<i>ʼA′leph</i>]</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter37"></a>
    <a id="chapter37_verse1"></a>
    <span class="w_ch">
      <b>37 </b>
    </span>Do not show yourself heated up because of the evildoers.</p>
  <p class="sz">Do not be envious of those doing unrighteousness.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter37_verse2"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>2 </sup>
    </b>For like grass they will speedily wither,</p>
  <p class="sz">And like green new grass they will fade away.</p>
  <p class="ss">
    <span class="smcap">ב </span>[<i>Behth</i>]</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter37_verse3"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>3 </sup>
    </b>Trust in Jehovah and do good;</p>
  <p class="sz">Reside in the earth, and deal with faithfulness.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter37_verse4"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>4 </sup>
    </b>Also take exquisite delight in Jehovah,</p>
  <p class="sz">And he will give you the requests of your heart.</p>
  <p class="ss">
    <span class="smcap">ג </span>[<i>Gi′mel</i>]</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter37_verse5"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>5 </sup>
    </b>Roll upon Jehovah your way,</p>
  <p class="sz">And rely upon him, and he himself will act.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter37_verse6"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>6 </sup>
    </b>And he will certainly bring forth your righteousness as the light itself,</p>
  <p class="sz">And your justice as the midday.</p>
  <p class="ss">
    <span class="smcap">ד </span>[<i>Da′leth</i>]</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter37_verse7"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>7 </sup>
    </b>Keep silent before Jehovah</p>
  <p class="sz">And wait longingly for him.</p>
  <p class="sp">Do not show yourself heated up at anyone making his way successful,</p>
  <p class="sz">At the man carrying out his ideas.</p>
  <p class="ss">
    <span class="smcap">ה </span>[<i>He</i>ʼ]</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter37_verse8"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>8 </sup>
    </b>Let anger alone and leave rage;</p>
  <p class="sz">Do not show yourself heated up only to do evil.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter37_verse9"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>9 </sup>
    </b>For evildoers themselves will be cut off,</p>
  <p class="sz">But those hoping in Jehovah are the ones that will possess the earth.</p>
  <p class="ss">
    <span class="smcap">ו </span>[<i>Waw</i>]</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter37_verse10"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>10 </sup>
    </b>And just a little while longer, and the wicked one will be no more;</p>
  <p class="sz">And you will certainly give attention to his place, and he will not be.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter37_verse11"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>11 </sup>
    </b>But the meek ones themselves will possess the earth,</p>
  <p class="sz">And they will indeed find their exquisite delight in the abundance of peace.</p>
  <p class="ss">
    <span class="smcap">ז </span>[<i>Za′yin</i>]</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter37_verse12"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>12 </sup>
    </b>The wicked one is plotting against the righteous one,</p>
  <p class="sz">And at him he is grinding his teeth.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter37_verse13"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>13 </sup>
    </b>Jehovah himself will laugh at him,</p>
  <p class="sz">For he certainly sees that his day will come.</p>
  <p class="ss">
    <span class="smcap">ח </span>[<i>Chehth</i>]</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter37_verse14"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>14 </sup>
    </b>The wicked ones have drawn a sword itself and have bent their bow,</p>
  <p class="sz">To cause the afflicted and poor one to fall,</p>
  <p class="sz">To slaughter those who are upright in their way.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter37_verse15"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>15 </sup>
    </b>Their own sword will enter into their heart,</p>
  <p class="sz">And their own bows will be broken.</p>
  <p class="ss">
    <span class="smcap">ט </span>[<i>Tehth</i>]</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter37_verse16"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>16 </sup>
    </b>Better is the little of the righteous one</p>
  <p class="sz">Than the abundance of the many wicked ones.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter37_verse17"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>17 </sup>
    </b>For the very arms of the wicked ones will be broken,</p>
  <p class="sz">But Jehovah will be supporting the righteous ones.</p>
  <p class="ss">
    <span class="smcap">י </span>[<i>Yohdh</i>]</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter37_verse18"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>18 </sup>
    </b>Jehovah is aware of the days of the faultless ones,</p>
  <p class="sz">And their very inheritance will continue even to time indefinite.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter37_verse19"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>19 </sup>
    </b>They will not be ashamed in the time of calamity,</p>
  <p class="sz">
    <a id="page743"></a>And in the days of famine they will be satisfied.</p>
  <p class="ss">
    <span class="smcap">כ </span>[<i>Kaph</i>]</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter37_verse20"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>20 </sup>
    </b>For the wicked themselves will perish,</p>
  <p class="sz">And the enemies of Jehovah will be like the preciousness of pastures;</p>
  <p class="sz">They must come to their end. In smoke they must come to their end.</p>
  <p class="ss">
    <span class="smcap">ל </span>[<i>La′medh</i>]</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter37_verse21"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>21 </sup>
    </b>The wicked one is borrowing and does not pay back,</p>
  <p class="sz">But the righteous one is showing favor and is making gifts.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter37_verse22"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>22 </sup>
    </b>For those being blessed by him will themselves possess the earth,</p>
  <p class="sz">But those upon whom evil is called by him will be cut off.</p>
  <p class="ss">
    <span class="smcap">מ </span>[<i>Mem</i>]</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter37_verse23"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>23 </sup>
    </b>By Jehovah the very steps of an able-bodied man have been made ready,</p>
  <p class="sz">And in his way He takes delight.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter37_verse24"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>24 </sup>
    </b>Although he may fall, he will not be hurled down,</p>
  <p class="sz">For Jehovah is supporting his hand.</p>
  <p class="ss">
    <span class="smcap">נ </span>[<i>Nun</i>]</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter37_verse25"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>25 </sup>
    </b>A young man I used to be, I have also grown old,</p>
  <p class="sz">And yet I have not seen anyone righteous left entirely,</p>
  <p class="sz">Nor his offspring looking for bread.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter37_verse26"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>26 </sup>
    </b>All day long he is showing favor and lending,</p>
  <p class="sz">And so his offspring are in line for a blessing.</p>
  <p class="ss">
    <span class="smcap">ס </span>[<i>Sa′mekh</i>]</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter37_verse27"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>27 </sup>
    </b>Turn away from what is bad and do what is good,</p>
  <p class="sz">And so reside to time indefinite.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter37_verse28"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>28 </sup>
    </b>For Jehovah is a lover of justice,</p>
  <p class="sz">And he will not leave his loyal ones.</p>
  <p class="ss">
    <span class="smcap">ע </span>[<i>ʽA′yin</i>]</p>
  <p class="sp">To time indefinite they will certainly be guarded;</p>
  <p class="sz">But as for the offspring of the wicked ones, they will indeed be cut off.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter37_verse29"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>29 </sup>
    </b>The righteous themselves will possess the earth,</p>
  <p class="sz">And they will reside forever upon it.</p>
  <p class="ss">
    <span class="smcap">פ </span>[<i>Peʼ</i>]</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter37_verse30"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>30 </sup>
    </b>The mouth of the righteous is the one that utters wisdom in an undertone,</p>
  <p class="sz">And his is the tongue that speaks justly.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter37_verse31"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>31 </sup>
    </b>The law of his God is in his heart;</p>
  <p class="sz">His steps will not wobble.</p>
  <p class="ss">
    <span class="smcap">צ </span>[<i>Tsa·dheh′</i>]</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter37_verse32"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>32 </sup>
    </b>The wicked one is keeping on the watch for the righteous</p>
  <p class="sz">And is seeking to put him to death.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter37_verse33"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>33 </sup>
    </b>As for Jehovah, he will not leave him to the hand of that one,</p>
  <p class="sz">And he will not pronounce him wicked when he is being judged.</p>
  <p class="ss">
    <span class="smcap">ק </span>[<i>Qohph</i>]</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter37_verse34"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>34 </sup>
    </b>Hope in Jehovah and keep his way,</p>
  <p class="sz">And he will exalt you to take possession of the earth.</p>
  <p class="sz">When the wicked ones are cut off, you will see it.</p>
  <p class="ss">
    <span class="smcap">ר </span>[<i>Rehsh</i>]</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter37_verse35"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>35 </sup>
    </b>I have seen the wicked a tyrant</p>
  <p class="sz">And spreading himself as a luxuriant tree in native soil.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter37_verse36"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>36 </sup>
    </b>And yet he proceeded to pass away, and there he was not;</p>
  <p class="sz">And I kept seeking him, and he was not found.</p>
  <p class="ss">
    <span class="smcap">ש </span>[<i>Shin</i>]</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter37_verse37"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>37 </sup>
    </b>Watch the blameless one and <a id="page744"></a>keep the upright one in sight,</p>
  <p class="sz">For the future of that man will be peaceful.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter37_verse38"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>38 </sup>
    </b>But the transgressors themselves will certainly be annihilated together;</p>
  <p class="sz">The future of wicked people will indeed be cut off.</p>
  <p class="ss">
    <span class="smcap">ת </span>[<i>Taw</i>]</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter37_verse39"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>39 </sup>
    </b>And the salvation of the righteous ones is from Jehovah;</p>
  <p class="sz">He is their fortress in the time of distress.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter37_verse40"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>40 </sup>
    </b>And Jehovah will help them and provide them with escape.</p>
  <p class="sz">He will provide them with escape from wicked people and save them,</p>
  <p class="sz">Because they have taken refuge in him.</p>
</div>