<div>
  <p class="w_biblebookname">Psalms</p>
  <p class="sw">To the director. A melody of David.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter41"></a>
    <a id="chapter41_verse1"></a>
    <span class="w_ch">
      <b>41 </b>
    </span>Happy is anyone acting with consideration toward the lowly one;</p>
  <p class="sz">In the day of calamity Jehovah will provide escape for him.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter41_verse2"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>2 </sup>
    </b>Jehovah himself will guard him and preserve him alive.</p>
  <p class="sz">He will be pronounced happy in the earth;</p>
  <p class="sz">And you cannot possibly give him over to the soul of his enemies.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter41_verse3"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>3 </sup>
    </b>Jehovah himself will sustain him upon a divan of illness;</p>
  <p class="sz">All his bed you will certainly change during his sickness.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter41_verse4"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>4 </sup>
    </b>As for me, I said: “O Jehovah, show me favor.</p>
  <p class="sz">Do heal my soul, for I have sinned against you.”</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter41_verse5"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>5 </sup>
    </b>As for my enemies, they say what is bad concerning me:</p>
  <p class="sz">“When will he die and his name actually perish?”</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter41_verse6"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>6 </sup>
    </b>And if one does come to see me, untruth is what his heart will speak;</p>
  <p class="sz">He will gather up for himself something hurtful;</p>
  <p class="sz">He will go out; on the outside he will speak of it.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter41_verse7"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>7 </sup>
    </b>Unitedly against me all those hating me whisper to one another;</p>
  <p class="sz">Against me they keep scheming something bad for me:</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter41_verse8"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>8 </sup>
    </b>“A good-for-nothing thing is poured out upon him;</p>
  <p class="sz">Now that he has lain down, he will not get up again.”</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter41_verse9"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>9 </sup>
    </b>Also the man at peace with me, in whom I trusted,</p>
  <p class="sz">Who was eating my bread, has magnified his heel against me.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter41_verse10"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>10 </sup>
    </b>As for you, O Jehovah, show me favor and cause me to get up,</p>
  <p class="sz">That I may pay them back.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter41_verse11"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>11 </sup>
    </b>By this I do know that you have found delight in me,</p>
  <p class="sz">Because my enemy does not shout in triumph over me.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter41_verse12"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>12 </sup>
    </b>As for me, because of my integrity you have upheld me,</p>
  <p class="sz">And you will set me before your face to time indefinite.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter41_verse13"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>13 </sup>
    </b>Blessed be Jehovah the God of Israel</p>
  <p class="sz">From time indefinite even to time indefinite.</p>
  <p class="sz">Amen and Amen.</p>
</div>