<book>
  <p class="w_biblebookname">Psalms</p>
  <p class="sw">A melody of David, to bring to remembrance.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter38"></a>
    <a id="chapter38_verse1"></a>
    <span class="w_ch">
      <b>38 </b>
    </span>O Jehovah, do not in your indignation reprove me,</p>
  <p class="sz">Nor in your rage correct me.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter38_verse2"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>2 </sup>
    </b>For your own arrows have sunk themselves deep into me,</p>
  <p class="sz">And upon me your hand is come down.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter38_verse3"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>3 </sup>
    </b>There is no sound spot in my flesh because of your denunciation.</p>
  <p class="sz">There is no peace in my bones on account of my sin.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter38_verse4"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>4 </sup>
    </b>For my own errors have passed over my head;</p>
  <p class="sz">Like a heavy load they are too heavy for me.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter38_verse5"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>5 </sup>
    </b>My wounds have become stinky, they have festered,</p>
  <p class="sz">Because of my foolishness.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter38_verse6"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>6 </sup>
    </b>I have become disconcerted, I have bowed low to an extreme degree;</p>
  <p class="sz">All day long I have walked about sad.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter38_verse7"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>7 </sup>
    </b>For my very loins have become full of burning,</p>
  <p class="sz">And there is no sound spot in my flesh.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter38_verse8"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>8 </sup>
    </b>I have grown numb and become crushed to an extreme degree;</p>
  <p class="sz">I have roared due to the groaning of my heart.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter38_verse9"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>9 </sup>
    </b>O Jehovah, in front of you is all my desire,</p>
  <p class="sz">And from you my sighing itself has not been concealed.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter38_verse10"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>10 </sup>
    </b>My own heart has palpitated heavily, my power has left me,</p>
  <p class="sz">And the light of my own eyes also is not with me.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter38_verse11"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>11 </sup>
    </b>As for my lovers and my companions, they keep standing away from my plague,</p>
  <p class="sz">And my close acquaintances themselves have stood off at a distance.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter38_verse12"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>12 </sup>
    </b>But those seeking my soul lay out traps,</p>
  <p class="sz">And those working for a calamity to me have spoken of adversities,</p>
  <p class="sz">And deceptions they keep muttering all day long.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter38_verse13"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>13 </sup>
    </b>As for me, like someone deaf, I would not listen;</p>
  <p class="sz">And like someone speechless, I would not open my mouth.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter38_verse14"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>14 </sup>
    </b>And I came to be like a man that was not hearing,</p>
  <p class="sz">And in my mouth there were no counterarguments.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter38_verse15"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>15 </sup>
    </b>For on you, O Jehovah, I waited;</p>
  <p class="sz">You yourself proceeded to answer, O Jehovah my God.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter38_verse16"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>16 </sup>
    </b>For I said: “Otherwise they would rejoice at me;</p>
  <p class="sz">When my foot moved unsteadily, they would certainly assume great airs against me.”</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter38_verse17"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>17 </sup>
    </b>For I was ready to limp,</p>
  <p class="sz">And my pain was in front of me constantly.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="page745"></a>
    <a id="chapter38_verse18"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>18 </sup>
    </b>For I proceeded to tell about my own error;</p>
  <p class="sz">I began to be anxious over my sin.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter38_verse19"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>19 </sup>
    </b>And my enemies who are alive became mighty,</p>
  <p class="sz">And those hating me for no reason became many.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter38_verse20"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>20 </sup>
    </b>And they were rewarding me with bad for good;</p>
  <p class="sz">They kept resisting me in return for my pursuing what is good.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter38_verse21"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>21 </sup>
    </b>Do not leave me, O Jehovah.</p>
  <p class="sz">O my God, do not keep far away from me.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter38_verse22"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>22 </sup>
    </b>Do make haste to my assistance,</p>
  <p class="sz">O Jehovah my salvation.</p>
</book>