<div>
  <p class="w_biblebookname">Psalms</p>
  <p class="ss">BOOK FOUR</p>
  <p class="ss">(Psalms 90 – 106)</p>
  <p class="sw">A prayer of Moses, the man of the true God.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter90"></a>
    <a id="chapter90_verse1"></a>
    <span class="w_ch">
      <b>90 </b>
    </span>O Jehovah, you yourself have proved to be a real dwelling for us</p>
  <p class="sz">During generation after generation.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter90_verse2"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>2 </sup>
    </b>Before the mountains themselves were born,</p>
  <p class="sz">Or you proceeded to bring forth as with labor pains the earth and the productive land,</p>
  <p class="sz">Even from time indefinite to time indefinite you are God.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter90_verse3"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>3 </sup>
    </b>You make mortal man go back to crushed matter,</p>
  <p class="sz">And you say: “G<span class="smcap">O </span>back, <span class="smcap">YOU </span>sons of men.”</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter90_verse4"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>4 </sup>
    </b>For a thousand years are in your eyes but as yesterday when it is past,</p>
  <p class="sz">And as a watch during the night.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter90_verse5"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>5 </sup>
    </b>You have swept them away; they become a mere sleep;</p>
  <p class="sz">In the morning they are just like green grass that changes.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter90_verse6"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>6 </sup>
    </b>In the morning it puts forth blossoms and must change;</p>
  <p class="sz">At evening it withers and certainly dries up.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter90_verse7"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>7 </sup>
    </b>For we have come to an end in your anger,</p>
  <p class="sz">And by your rage we have been disturbed.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter90_verse8"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>8 </sup>
    </b>You have set our errors right in front of you,</p>
  <p class="sz">Our hidden things before your bright face.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter90_verse9"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>9 </sup>
    </b>For all our days have come to their decline in your fury;</p>
  <p class="sz">We have finished our years just like a whisper.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter90_verse10"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>10 </sup>
    </b>In themselves the days of our years are seventy years;</p>
  <p class="sz">And if because of special mightiness they are eighty years,</p>
  <p class="sp">Yet their insistence is on trouble and hurtful things;</p>
  <p class="sz">For it must quickly pass by, and away we fly.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter90_verse11"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>11 </sup>
    </b>Who is there knowing the strength of your anger</p>
  <p class="sz">And your fury according to the fear of you?</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter90_verse12"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>12 </sup>
    </b>Show us just how to count our days in such a way</p>
  <p class="sz">That we may bring a heart of wisdom in.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter90_verse13"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>13 </sup>
    </b>Do return, O Jehovah! How long will it be?</p>
  <p class="sz">And feel regret over your servants.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="page790"></a>
    <a id="chapter90_verse14"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>14 </sup>
    </b>Satisfy us in the morning with your loving-kindness,</p>
  <p class="sz">That we may cry out joyfully and may rejoice during all our days.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter90_verse15"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>15 </sup>
    </b>Make us rejoice correspondingly to the days that you have afflicted us,</p>
  <p class="sz">The years that we have seen calamity.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter90_verse16"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>16 </sup>
    </b>May your activity appear to your own servants</p>
  <p class="sz">And your splendor upon their sons.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter90_verse17"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>17 </sup>
    </b>And let the pleasantness of Jehovah our God prove to be upon us,</p>
  <p class="sz">And the work of our hands do you firmly establish upon us.</p>
  <p class="sz">Yes, the work of our hands, do you firmly establish it.</p>
</div>