<book>
  <p class="w_biblebookname">Psalms</p>
  <p class="sw">To the director. Mas′kil. Of David, when Do′eg the E′dom·ite came and proceeded to tell Saul and say to him that David had come to the house of A·him′e·lech.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter52"></a>
    <a id="chapter52_verse1"></a>
    <span class="w_ch">
      <b>52 </b>
    </span>Why do you make your boast over what is bad, O you mighty one?</p>
  <p class="sz">The loving-kindness of God is all day long.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter52_verse2"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>2 </sup>
    </b>Adversities your tongue schemes up, sharpened like a razor,</p>
  <p class="sz">Working deceitfully.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter52_verse3"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>3 </sup>
    </b>You have loved what is bad more than what is good,</p>
  <p class="sz">Falsehood more than speaking righteousness. <i>Se′lah.</i></p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter52_verse4"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>4 </sup>
    </b>You have loved all devouring words,</p>
  <p class="sz">O you deceitful tongue.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter52_verse5"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>5 </sup>
    </b>God himself will also pull you down forever;</p>
  <p class="sz">He will knock you down and tear you away from your tent,</p>
  <p class="sz">
    <a id="page756"></a>And he will certainly root you out of the land of the living ones. <i>Se′lah.</i></p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter52_verse6"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>6 </sup>
    </b>And the righteous ones will see it and will be afraid,</p>
  <p class="sz">And over him they will laugh.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter52_verse7"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>7 </sup>
    </b>Here is the able-bodied man that does not put God as his fortress,</p>
  <p class="sz">But that trusts in the abundance of his riches,</p>
  <p class="sz">That takes shelter in adversities by him.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter52_verse8"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>8 </sup>
    </b>But I shall be like a luxuriant olive tree in God’s house;</p>
  <p class="sz">I do trust in the loving-kindness of God to time indefinite, even forever.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter52_verse9"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>9 </sup>
    </b>I will laud you to time indefinite, for you have taken action;</p>
  <p class="sz">And I shall hope in your name, because it is good, in front of your loyal ones.</p>
</book>