<book>
  <p class="w_biblebookname">Psalms</p>
  <p class="sw">To the director upon the Hind of the Dawn. A melody of David.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter22"></a>
    <a id="chapter22_verse1"></a>
    <span class="w_ch">
      <b>22 </b>
    </span>My God, my God, why have you left me?</p>
  <p class="sz">Why are you far from saving me,</p>
  <p class="sz">From the words of my roaring?</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter22_verse2"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>2 </sup>
    </b>O my God, I keep calling by day, and you do not answer;</p>
  <p class="sz">And by night, and there is no silence on my part.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter22_verse3"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>3 </sup>
    </b>But you are holy,</p>
  <p class="sz">Inhabiting the praises of Israel.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter22_verse4"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>4 </sup>
    </b>In you our fathers trusted;</p>
  <p class="sz">They trusted, and you kept providing them with escape.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter22_verse5"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>5 </sup>
    </b>To you they cried out, and they got away safe;</p>
  <p class="sz">In you they trusted, and they did not come to shame.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter22_verse6"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>6 </sup>
    </b>But I am a worm, and not a man,</p>
  <p class="sz">A reproach to men and despicable to the people.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter22_verse7"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>7 </sup>
    </b>As for all those seeing me, they hold me in derision;</p>
  <p class="sz">They keep opening their mouths wide, they keep wagging their head:</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter22_verse8"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>8 </sup>
    </b>“He committed himself to Jehovah. Let Him provide him with escape!</p>
  <p class="sz">Let him deliver him, since he has taken delight in him!”</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter22_verse9"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>9 </sup>
    </b>For you were the One drawing me forth from the belly,</p>
  <p class="sz">The One making me trust while upon the breasts of my mother.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter22_verse10"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>10 </sup>
    </b>Upon you I have been thrown from the womb;</p>
  <p class="sz">From the belly of my mother you have been my God.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter22_verse11"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>11 </sup>
    </b>Do not keep far off from me, because distress is nearby,</p>
  <p class="sz">Because there is no other helper.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter22_verse12"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>12 </sup>
    </b>Many young bulls have surrounded me;</p>
  <p class="sz">The powerful ones of Ba′shan themselves have got around me.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter22_verse13"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>13 </sup>
    </b>They have opened against me their mouth,</p>
  <p class="sz">
    <a id="page730"></a>As a lion tearing in pieces and roaring.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter22_verse14"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>14 </sup>
    </b>Like water I have been poured out,</p>
  <p class="sz">And all my bones have been separated from one another.</p>
  <p class="sp">My heart has become like wax;</p>
  <p class="sz">It has melted deep in my inward parts.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter22_verse15"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>15 </sup>
    </b>My power has dried up just like a fragment of earthenware,</p>
  <p class="sz">And my tongue is made to stick to my gums;</p>
  <p class="sl">And in the dust of death you are setting me.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter22_verse16"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>16 </sup>
    </b>For dogs have surrounded me;</p>
  <p class="sz">The assembly of evildoers themselves have enclosed me.</p>
  <p class="sz">Like a lion they are at my hands and my feet.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter22_verse17"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>17 </sup>
    </b>I can count all my bones.</p>
  <p class="sz">They themselves look, they gaze upon me.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter22_verse18"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>18 </sup>
    </b>They apportion my garments among themselves,</p>
  <p class="sz">And upon my clothing they cast lots.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter22_verse19"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>19 </sup>
    </b>But you, O Jehovah, O do not keep far off.</p>
  <p class="sz">O you my strength, do make haste to my assistance.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter22_verse20"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>20 </sup>
    </b>Do deliver from the sword my soul,</p>
  <p class="sz">My only one from the very paw of the dog;</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter22_verse21"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>21 </sup>
    </b>Save me from the mouth of the lion,</p>
  <p class="sz">And from the horns of wild bulls you must answer and save me.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter22_verse22"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>22 </sup>
    </b>I will declare your name to my brothers;</p>
  <p class="sz">In the middle of the congregation I shall praise you.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter22_verse23"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>23 </sup>
    </b>Y<span class="smcap">OU </span>fearers of Jehovah, praise him!</p>
  <p class="sz">All <span class="smcap">YOU </span>the seed of Jacob, glorify him!</p>
  <p class="sz">And be frightened at him, all <span class="smcap">YOU </span>the seed of Israel.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter22_verse24"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>24 </sup>
    </b>For he has neither despised</p>
  <p class="sz">Nor loathed the affliction of the afflicted one;</p>
  <p class="sp">And he has not concealed his face from him,</p>
  <p class="sz">And when he cried to him for help he heard.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter22_verse25"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>25 </sup>
    </b>From you my praise will be in the large congregation;</p>
  <p class="sz">My vows I shall pay in front of those fearing him.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter22_verse26"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>26 </sup>
    </b>The meek ones will eat and be satisfied;</p>
  <p class="sz">Those seeking him will praise Jehovah.</p>
  <p class="sz">May <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>hearts live forever.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter22_verse27"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>27 </sup>
    </b>All the ends of the earth will remember and turn back to Jehovah.</p>
  <p class="sz">And all the families of the nations will bow down before you.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter22_verse28"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>28 </sup>
    </b>For the kingship belongs to Jehovah,</p>
  <p class="sz">And he is dominating the nations.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter22_verse29"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>29 </sup>
    </b>All the fat ones of the earth shall eat and will bow down;</p>
  <p class="sz">Before him all those going down to the dust will bend down,</p>
  <p class="sz">And no one will ever preserve his own soul alive.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter22_verse30"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>30 </sup>
    </b>A seed itself will serve him;</p>
  <p class="sz">It will be declared concerning Jehovah to the generation.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter22_verse31"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>31 </sup>
    </b>They will come and tell of his righteousness</p>
  <p class="sz">To the people that is to be born, that he has done this.</p>
</book>