<book>
  <p class="w_biblebookname">Psalms</p>
  <p class="sw">To the director. A melody of David.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter19"></a>
    <a id="chapter19_verse1"></a>
    <span class="w_ch">
      <b>19 </b>
    </span>The heavens are declaring the glory of God;</p>
  <p class="sz">And of the work of his hands the expanse is telling.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter19_verse2"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>2 </sup>
    </b>One day after another day causes speech to bubble forth,</p>
  <p class="sz">And one night after another night shows forth knowledge.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter19_verse3"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>3 </sup>
    </b>There is no speech, and there are no words;</p>
  <p class="sz">No voice on their part is being heard.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter19_verse4"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>4 </sup>
    </b>Into all the earth their measuring line has gone out,</p>
  <p class="sz">And to the extremity of the productive land their utterances.</p>
  <p class="sz">In them he has set a tent for the sun,</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter19_verse5"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>5 </sup>
    </b>And it is like a bridegroom when coming out of his nuptial chamber;</p>
  <p class="sz">It exults as a mighty man does to run in a path.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter19_verse6"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>6 </sup>
    </b>From one extremity of the heavens is its going forth,</p>
  <p class="sz">And its finished circuit is to their other extremities;</p>
  <p class="sz">And there is nothing concealed from its heat.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter19_verse7"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>7 </sup>
    </b>The law of Jehovah is perfect, bringing back the soul.</p>
  <p class="sz">The reminder of Jehovah is trustworthy, making the inexperienced one wise.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter19_verse8"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>8 </sup>
    </b>The orders from Jehovah are upright, causing the heart to rejoice;</p>
  <p class="sz">The commandment of <a id="page728"></a>Jehovah is clean, making the eyes shine.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter19_verse9"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>9 </sup>
    </b>The fear of Jehovah is pure, standing forever.</p>
  <p class="sz">The judicial decisions of Jehovah are true; they have proved altogether righteous.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter19_verse10"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>10 </sup>
    </b>They are more to be desired than gold, yes, than much refined gold;</p>
  <p class="sz">And sweeter than honey and the flowing honey of the combs.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter19_verse11"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>11 </sup>
    </b>Also, your own servant has been warned by them;</p>
  <p class="sz">In the keeping of them there is a large reward.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter19_verse12"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>12 </sup>
    </b>Mistakes—who can discern?</p>
  <p class="sz">From concealed sins pronounce me innocent.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter19_verse13"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>13 </sup>
    </b>Also from presumptuous acts hold your servant back;</p>
  <p class="sz">Do not let them dominate me.</p>
  <p class="sp">In that case I shall be complete,</p>
  <p class="sz">And I shall have remained innocent from much transgression.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter19_verse14"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>14 </sup>
    </b>Let the sayings of my mouth and the meditation of my heart</p>
  <p class="sz">Become pleasurable before you, O Jehovah my Rock and my Redeemer.</p>
</book>