<book>
  <p class="w_biblebookname">Psalms</p>
  <p class="sw">For the director. Of David. A melody.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter139"></a>
    <a id="chapter139_verse1"></a>
    <span class="w_ch">
      <b>139 </b>
    </span>O Jehovah, you have searched through me, and you know me.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter139_verse2"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>2 </sup>
    </b>You yourself have come to know my sitting down and my rising up.</p>
  <p class="sz">You have considered my thought from far off.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter139_verse3"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>3 </sup>
    </b>My journeying and my lying outstretched you have measured off,</p>
  <p class="sz">And you have become familiar even with all my ways.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter139_verse4"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>4 </sup>
    </b>For there is not a word on my tongue,</p>
  <p class="sz">But, look! O Jehovah, you already know it all.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter139_verse5"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>5 </sup>
    </b>Behind and before, you have besieged me;</p>
  <p class="sz">
    <a id="page830"></a>And you place your hand upon me.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter139_verse6"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>6 </sup>
    </b>Such knowledge is too wonderful for me.</p>
  <p class="sz">It is so high up that I cannot attain to it.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter139_verse7"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>7 </sup>
    </b>Where can I go from your spirit,</p>
  <p class="sz">And where can I run away from your face?</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter139_verse8"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>8 </sup>
    </b>If I should ascend to heaven, there you would be;</p>
  <p class="sz">And if I should spread out my couch in She′ol, look! you would be there.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter139_verse9"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>9 </sup>
    </b>Were I to take the wings of the dawn,</p>
  <p class="sz">That I might reside in the most remote sea,</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter139_verse10"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>10 </sup>
    </b>There, also, your own hand would lead me</p>
  <p class="sz">And your right hand would lay hold of me.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter139_verse11"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>11 </sup>
    </b>And were I to say: “Surely darkness itself will hastily seize me!”</p>
  <p class="sz">Then night would be light about me.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter139_verse12"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>12 </sup>
    </b>Even the darkness itself would not prove too dark for you,</p>
  <p class="sz">But night itself would shine just as the day does;</p>
  <p class="sz">The darkness might just as well be the light.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter139_verse13"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>13 </sup>
    </b>For you yourself produced my kidneys;</p>
  <p class="sz">You kept me screened off in the belly of my mother.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter139_verse14"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>14 </sup>
    </b>I shall laud you because in a fear-inspiring way I am wonderfully made.</p>
  <p class="sz">Your works are wonderful,</p>
  <p class="sz">As my soul is very well aware.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter139_verse15"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>15 </sup>
    </b>My bones were not hidden from you</p>
  <p class="sz">When I was made in secret,</p>
  <p class="sz">When I was woven in the lowest parts of the earth.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter139_verse16"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>16 </sup>
    </b>Your eyes saw even the embryo of me,</p>
  <p class="sz">And in your book all its parts were down in writing,</p>
  <p class="sp">As regards the days when they were formed</p>
  <p class="sz">And there was not yet one among them.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter139_verse17"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>17 </sup>
    </b>So, to me how precious your thoughts are!</p>
  <p class="sz">O God, how much does the grand sum of them amount to!</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter139_verse18"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>18 </sup>
    </b>Were I to try to count them, they are more than even the grains of sand.</p>
  <p class="sz">I have awaked, and yet I am still with you.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter139_verse19"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>19 </sup>
    </b>O that you, O God, would slay the wicked one!</p>
  <p class="sz">Then even the bloodguilty men will certainly depart from me,</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter139_verse20"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>20 </sup>
    </b>Who say things about you according to their idea;</p>
  <p class="sz">They have taken up your name in a worthless way—your adversaries.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter139_verse21"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>21 </sup>
    </b>Do I not hate those who are intensely hating you, O Jehovah,</p>
  <p class="sz">And do I not feel a loathing for those revolting against you?</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter139_verse22"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>22 </sup>
    </b>With a complete hatred I do hate them.</p>
  <p class="sz">They have become to me real enemies.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter139_verse23"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>23 </sup>
    </b>Search through me, O God, and know my heart.</p>
  <p class="sz">Examine me, and know my disquieting thoughts,</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter139_verse24"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>24 </sup>
    </b>And see whether there is in me any painful way,</p>
  <p class="sz">And lead me in the way of time indefinite.</p>
</book>