<book>
  <p class="w_biblebookname">Psalms</p>
  <p class="sw">A prayer of the afflicted in case he grows feeble and pours out his concern before Jehovah himself.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter102"></a>
    <a id="chapter102_verse1"></a>
    <span class="w_ch">
      <b>102 </b>
    </span>O Jehovah, do hear my prayer;</p>
  <p class="sz">And to you may my own cry for help come.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter102_verse2"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>2 </sup>
    </b>Do not conceal your face from me on the day that I am in sore straits.</p>
  <p class="sz">Incline to me your ear;</p>
  <p class="sz">On the day that I call, hurry, answer me.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter102_verse3"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>3 </sup>
    </b>For my days have come to an end just like smoke,</p>
  <p class="sz">And my very bones have been made red-hot just like a fireplace.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter102_verse4"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>4 </sup>
    </b>My heart has been struck just like vegetation and is dried up,</p>
  <p class="sz">For I have forgotten to eat my food.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter102_verse5"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>5 </sup>
    </b>Because of the sound of my sighing</p>
  <p class="sz">My bones have stuck to my flesh.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter102_verse6"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>6 </sup>
    </b>I do resemble the pelican of the wilderness.</p>
  <p class="sz">I have become like a little owl of desolated places.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter102_verse7"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>7 </sup>
    </b>I have grown emaciated,</p>
  <p class="sz">And I am become like a bird isolated upon a roof.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter102_verse8"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>8 </sup>
    </b>All day long my enemies have reproached me.</p>
  <p class="sz">Those making a fool of me have sworn even by me.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter102_verse9"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>9 </sup>
    </b>For I have eaten ashes themselves just like bread;</p>
  <p class="sz">And the things I drink I have mingled even with weeping,</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter102_verse10"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>10 </sup>
    </b>Because of your denunciation and your indignation;</p>
  <p class="sz">For you have lifted me up, that you might throw me away.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="page797"></a>
    <a id="chapter102_verse11"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>11 </sup>
    </b>My days are like a shadow that has declined,</p>
  <p class="sz">And I myself am dried up like mere vegetation.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter102_verse12"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>12 </sup>
    </b>As for you, O Jehovah, to time indefinite you will dwell,</p>
  <p class="sz">And your memorial will be for generation after generation.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter102_verse13"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>13 </sup>
    </b>You yourself will arise, you will have mercy on Zion,</p>
  <p class="sz">For it is the season to be favorable to her,</p>
  <p class="sl">For the appointed time has come.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter102_verse14"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>14 </sup>
    </b>For your servants have found pleasure in her stones,</p>
  <p class="sz">And to her dust they direct their favor.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter102_verse15"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>15 </sup>
    </b>And the nations will fear the name of Jehovah,</p>
  <p class="sz">And all the kings of the earth your glory.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter102_verse16"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>16 </sup>
    </b>For Jehovah will certainly build up Zion;</p>
  <p class="sz">He must appear in his glory.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter102_verse17"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>17 </sup>
    </b>He will certainly turn to the prayer of those stripped of everything,</p>
  <p class="sz">And not despise their prayer.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter102_verse18"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>18 </sup>
    </b>This is written for the future generation;</p>
  <p class="sz">And the people that is to be created will praise Jah.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter102_verse19"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>19 </sup>
    </b>For he has looked down from his holy height,</p>
  <p class="sz">From the very heavens Jehovah himself has looked even at the earth,</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter102_verse20"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>20 </sup>
    </b>To hear the sighing of the prisoner,</p>
  <p class="sz">To loosen those appointed to death;</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter102_verse21"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>21 </sup>
    </b>For the name of Jehovah to be declared in Zion</p>
  <p class="sz">And his praise in Jerusalem,</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter102_verse22"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>22 </sup>
    </b>When the peoples are collected all together,</p>
  <p class="sz">And the kingdoms to serve Jehovah.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter102_verse23"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>23 </sup>
    </b>On the way he afflicted my power,</p>
  <p class="sz">He cut short my days.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter102_verse24"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>24 </sup>
    </b>I proceeded to say: “O my God,</p>
  <p class="sz">Do not take me off at the half of my days;</p>
  <p class="sz">Your years are throughout all generations.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter102_verse25"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>25 </sup>
    </b>Long ago you laid the foundations of the earth itself,</p>
  <p class="sz">And the heavens are the work of your hands.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter102_verse26"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>26 </sup>
    </b>They themselves will perish, but you yourself will keep standing;</p>
  <p class="sz">And just like a garment they will all of them wear out.</p>
  <p class="sz">Just like clothing you will replace them, and they will finish their turn.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter102_verse27"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>27 </sup>
    </b>But you are the same, and your own years will not be completed.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter102_verse28"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>28 </sup>
    </b>The sons of your servants will continue residing;</p>
  <p class="sz">And before you their own offspring will be firmly established.”</p>
</book>