<book>
  <p class="w_biblebookname">Psalms</p>
  <p class="sw">To the director upon the Git′tith. Of A′saph.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter81"></a>
    <a id="chapter81_verse1"></a>
    <span class="w_ch">
      <b>81 </b>
    </span>O cry out joyfully, <span class="smcap">YOU </span>people, to God our strength;</p>
  <p class="sz">Shout in triumph to the God of Jacob.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter81_verse2"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>2 </sup>
    </b>Strike up a melody and take a tambourine,</p>
  <p class="sz">The pleasant harp together with the stringed instrument.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter81_verse3"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>3 </sup>
    </b>On the new moon, <span class="smcap">BLOW </span>the horn;</p>
  <p class="sz">On the full moon, for the day of our festival.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter81_verse4"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>4 </sup>
    </b>For it is a regulation for Israel,</p>
  <p class="sz">A judicial decision of the God of Jacob.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter81_verse5"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>5 </sup>
    </b>As a reminder he laid it upon Joseph himself,</p>
  <p class="sz">When he was going forth over the land of Egypt.</p>
  <p class="sz">A language that I did not know I kept hearing.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter81_verse6"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>6 </sup>
    </b>“I turned aside his shoulder even from the burden;</p>
  <p class="sz">His own hands got to be free even from the basket.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter81_verse7"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>7 </sup>
    </b>In distress you called, and I proceeded to rescue you;</p>
  <p class="sz">I began to answer you in the concealed place of thunder.</p>
  <p class="sz">I went examining you at the waters of Mer′i·bah. <i>Se′lah.</i></p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter81_verse8"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>8 </sup>
    </b>Hear, O my people, and I will bear witness against you,</p>
  <p class="sz">O Israel, if you will listen to me.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter81_verse9"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>9 </sup>
    </b>Among you there will prove to be no strange god;</p>
  <p class="sz">And you will not bow down to a foreign god.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="page782"></a>
    <a id="chapter81_verse10"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>10 </sup>
    </b>I, Jehovah, am your God,</p>
  <p class="sz">The One bringing you up out of the land of Egypt.</p>
  <p class="sz">Open your mouth wide, and I shall fill it.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter81_verse11"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>11 </sup>
    </b>But my people has not listened to my voice;</p>
  <p class="sz">And Israel itself has not showed any willingness toward me.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter81_verse12"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>12 </sup>
    </b>And so I let them go in the stubbornness of their heart;</p>
  <p class="sz">They went walking in their own counsels.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter81_verse13"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>13 </sup>
    </b>O that my people were listening to me,</p>
  <p class="sz">O that Israel itself would walk in my very ways!</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter81_verse14"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>14 </sup>
    </b>Their enemies I would easily subdue,</p>
  <p class="sz">And against their adversaries I would turn my hand.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter81_verse15"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>15 </sup>
    </b>As for those intensely hating Jehovah, they will come cringing to him,</p>
  <p class="sz">And their time will prove to be to time indefinite.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter81_verse16"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>16 </sup>
    </b>And he will keep feeding him off the fat of the wheat,</p>
  <p class="sz">And out of the rock I shall satisfy you with honey itself.”</p>
</book>