<div>
  <p class="w_biblebookname">Psalms</p>
  <p class="sw">To the director. “Do not bring to ruin.” Of David. Mik′tam.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter58"></a>
    <a id="chapter58_verse1"></a>
    <span class="w_ch">
      <b>58 </b>
    </span>In <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>silence can <span class="smcap">YOU </span>really speak about righteousness itself?</p>
  <p class="sz">Can <span class="smcap">YOU </span>judge in uprightness itself, O <span class="smcap">YOU </span>sons of men?</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter58_verse2"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>2 </sup>
    </b>How much, rather, do <span class="smcap">YOU </span>with the heart practice outright unrighteousness in the earth,</p>
  <p class="sz">And prepare the road for the very violence of <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>hands!</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter58_verse3"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>3 </sup>
    </b>The wicked ones have been perverts from the womb;</p>
  <p class="sz">They have wandered about from the belly onward;</p>
  <p class="sl">They are speaking lies.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter58_verse4"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>4 </sup>
    </b>The venom of theirs is like the venom of the serpent,</p>
  <p class="sz">Deaf like the cobra that stops up its ear,</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter58_verse5"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>5 </sup>
    </b>That will not listen to the voice of charmers,</p>
  <p class="sz">Though someone wise is binding with spells.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter58_verse6"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>6 </sup>
    </b>O God, knock out their teeth in their mouth.</p>
  <p class="sz">Break down the very jawbones of maned young lions, O Jehovah.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter58_verse7"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>7 </sup>
    </b>May they dissolve as into waters that go their way;</p>
  <p class="sz">May he bend the bow for his arrows as they collapse.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter58_verse8"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>8 </sup>
    </b>Like a snail melting away he walks;</p>
  <p class="sz">Like a miscarriage of a woman they will certainly not behold the sun.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter58_verse9"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>9 </sup>
    </b>Before <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>pots feel the kindled bramble,</p>
  <p class="sz">The live green as well as the burning, he will carry them off as a stormy wind.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter58_verse10"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>10 </sup>
    </b>The righteous one will rejoice because he has beheld the vengeance.</p>
  <p class="sz">
    <a id="page760"></a>His steps he will bathe in the blood of the wicked one.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter58_verse11"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>11 </sup>
    </b>And mankind will say: “Surely there is fruitage for the righteous one.</p>
  <p class="sz">Surely there exists a God that is judging in the earth.”</p>
</div>