<div>
  <p class="w_biblebookname">Psalms</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="page792"></a>
    <a id="chapter94"></a>
    <a id="chapter94_verse1"></a>
    <span class="w_ch">
      <b>94 </b>
    </span>O God of acts of vengeance, Jehovah,</p>
  <p class="sz">O God of acts of vengeance, beam forth!</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter94_verse2"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>2 </sup>
    </b>Raise yourself up, O Judge of the earth.</p>
  <p class="sz">Bring back a retribution upon the haughty ones.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter94_verse3"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>3 </sup>
    </b>How long are the wicked, O Jehovah,</p>
  <p class="sz">How long are the wicked themselves going to exult?</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter94_verse4"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>4 </sup>
    </b>They keep bubbling forth, they keep speaking unrestrained;</p>
  <p class="sz">All the practicers of what is hurtful keep bragging about themselves.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter94_verse5"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>5 </sup>
    </b>Your people, O Jehovah, they keep crushing,</p>
  <p class="sz">And your inheritance they keep afflicting.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter94_verse6"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>6 </sup>
    </b>The widow and the alien resident they kill,</p>
  <p class="sz">And the fatherless boys they murder.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter94_verse7"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>7 </sup>
    </b>And they keep saying: “Jah does not see;</p>
  <p class="sz">And the God of Jacob does not understand it.”</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter94_verse8"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>8 </sup>
    </b>Understand, <span class="smcap">YOU </span>who are unreasoning among the people;</p>
  <p class="sz">And as for <span class="smcap">YOU </span>stupid ones, when will <span class="smcap">YOU </span>have any insight?</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter94_verse9"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>9 </sup>
    </b>The One planting the ear, can he not hear?</p>
  <p class="sz">Or the One forming the eye, can he not look?</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter94_verse10"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>10 </sup>
    </b>The One correcting the nations, can he not reprove,</p>
  <p class="sz">Even the One teaching men knowledge?</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter94_verse11"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>11 </sup>
    </b>Jehovah is knowing the thoughts of men, that they are as an exhalation.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter94_verse12"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>12 </sup>
    </b>Happy is the able-bodied man whom you correct, O Jah,</p>
  <p class="sz">And whom you teach out of your own law,</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter94_verse13"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>13 </sup>
    </b>To give him quietness from days of calamity,</p>
  <p class="sz">Until for the wicked one a pit is excavated.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter94_verse14"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>14 </sup>
    </b>For Jehovah will not forsake his people,</p>
  <p class="sz">Nor will he leave his own inheritance.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter94_verse15"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>15 </sup>
    </b>For judicial decision will return even to righteousness,</p>
  <p class="sz">And all the upright in heart will follow it.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter94_verse16"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>16 </sup>
    </b>Who will rise up for me against the evildoers?</p>
  <p class="sz">Who will take his stand for me against the practicers of hurtfulness?</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter94_verse17"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>17 </sup>
    </b>Unless Jehovah had been of assistance to me,</p>
  <p class="sz">In a little while my soul would have resided in silence.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter94_verse18"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>18 </sup>
    </b>When I said: “My foot will certainly move unsteadily,”</p>
  <p class="sz">Your own loving-kindness, O Jehovah, kept sustaining me.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter94_verse19"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>19 </sup>
    </b>When my disquieting thoughts became many inside of me,</p>
  <p class="sz">Your own consolations began to fondle my soul.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter94_verse20"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>20 </sup>
    </b>Will the throne causing adversities be allied with you</p>
  <p class="sz">While it is framing trouble by decree?</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter94_verse21"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>21 </sup>
    </b>They make sharp attacks on the soul of the righteous one</p>
  <p class="sz">And pronounce wicked even the blood of the innocent one.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter94_verse22"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>22 </sup>
    </b>But Jehovah will become a secure height for me,</p>
  <p class="sz">And my God the rock of my refuge.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter94_verse23"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>23 </sup>
    </b>And he will turn back upon them their hurtfulness</p>
  <p class="sz">And will silence them with their own calamity.</p>
  <p class="sz">
    <a id="page793"></a>Jehovah our God will silence them.</p>
</div>