<book>
  <p class="w_biblebookname">Psalms</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter147"></a>
    <a id="chapter147_verse1"></a>
    <span class="w_ch">
      <b>147 </b>
    </span>Praise Jah, <span class="smcap">YOU </span>people,</p>
  <p class="sz">For it is good to make melody to our God;</p>
  <p class="sz">For it is pleasant—praise is fitting.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter147_verse2"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>2 </sup>
    </b>Jehovah is building Jerusalem;</p>
  <p class="sz">The dispersed ones of Israel he brings together.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="page836"></a>
    <a id="chapter147_verse3"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>3 </sup>
    </b>He is healing the brokenhearted ones,</p>
  <p class="sz">And is binding up their painful spots.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter147_verse4"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>4 </sup>
    </b>He is counting the number of the stars;</p>
  <p class="sz">All of them he calls by their names.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter147_verse5"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>5 </sup>
    </b>Our Lord is great and is abundant in power;</p>
  <p class="sz">His understanding is beyond recounting.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter147_verse6"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>6 </sup>
    </b>Jehovah is relieving the meek ones;</p>
  <p class="sz">He is abasing the wicked ones to the earth.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter147_verse7"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>7 </sup>
    </b>Respond to Jehovah with thanksgiving, <span class="smcap">YOU </span>people;</p>
  <p class="sz">Make melody to our God on the harp,</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter147_verse8"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>8 </sup>
    </b>The One who is covering the heavens with clouds,</p>
  <p class="sz">The One preparing rain for the earth,</p>
  <p class="sz">The One making the mountains to sprout green grass.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter147_verse9"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>9 </sup>
    </b>To the beasts he is giving their food,</p>
  <p class="sz">To the young ravens that keep calling.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter147_verse10"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>10 </sup>
    </b>Not in the mightiness of the horse does he take delight,</p>
  <p class="sz">Nor in the legs of the man does he find pleasure.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter147_verse11"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>11 </sup>
    </b>Jehovah is finding pleasure in those fearing him,</p>
  <p class="sz">In those waiting for his loving-kindness.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter147_verse12"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>12 </sup>
    </b>Commend Jehovah, O Jerusalem.</p>
  <p class="sz">Praise your God, O Zion.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter147_verse13"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>13 </sup>
    </b>For he has made the bars of your gates strong;</p>
  <p class="sz">He has blessed your sons in the midst of you.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter147_verse14"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>14 </sup>
    </b>He is putting peace in your territory;</p>
  <p class="sz">With the fat of the wheat he keeps satisfying you.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter147_verse15"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>15 </sup>
    </b>He is sending his saying to the earth;</p>
  <p class="sz">With speed his word runs.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter147_verse16"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>16 </sup>
    </b>He is giving snow like wool;</p>
  <p class="sz">Hoarfrost he scatters just like ashes.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter147_verse17"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>17 </sup>
    </b>He is throwing his ice like morsels.</p>
  <p class="sz">Before his cold who can stand?</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter147_verse18"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>18 </sup>
    </b>He sends forth his word and melts them.</p>
  <p class="sz">He causes his wind to blow;</p>
  <p class="sz">The waters trickle.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter147_verse19"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>19 </sup>
    </b>He is telling his word to Jacob,</p>
  <p class="sz">His regulations and his judicial decisions to Israel.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter147_verse20"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>20 </sup>
    </b>He has not done that way to any other nation;</p>
  <p class="sz">And as for his judicial decisions, they have not known them.</p>
  <p class="sz">Praise Jah, <span class="smcap">YOU </span>people!</p>
</book>