<book>
  <p class="w_biblebookname">Psalms</p>
  <p class="sw">A song. A melody of David.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter108"></a>
    <a id="chapter108_verse1"></a>
    <span class="w_ch">
      <b>108 </b>
    </span>My heart is steadfast, O God.</p>
  <p class="sz">I will sing and make melody,</p>
  <p class="sz">Even my glory.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter108_verse2"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>2 </sup>
    </b>Do awake, O stringed instrument; you too, O harp.</p>
  <p class="sz">I will awaken the dawn.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter108_verse3"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>3 </sup>
    </b>I shall laud you among the peoples, O Jehovah;</p>
  <p class="sz">And I shall make melody to you among the national groups.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter108_verse4"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>4 </sup>
    </b>For your loving-kindness is great up to the heavens,</p>
  <p class="sz">And your trueness up to the skies.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter108_verse5"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>5 </sup>
    </b>O be exalted above the heavens, O God;</p>
  <p class="sz">And let your glory be above all the earth.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter108_verse6"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>6 </sup>
    </b>In order that your beloved ones may be rescued,</p>
  <p class="sz">O do save with your right hand and answer me.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter108_verse7"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>7 </sup>
    </b>God himself has spoken in his holiness:</p>
  <p class="sz">“I will exult, I will give out She′chem as a portion;</p>
  <p class="sl">And the low plain of Suc′coth I shall measure off.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter108_verse8"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>8 </sup>
    </b>Gil′e·ad belongs to me; Ma·nas′seh belongs to me;</p>
  <p class="sz">And E′phra·im is the fortress of my head one;</p>
  <p class="sz">Judah is my commander’s staff.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="page807"></a>
    <a id="chapter108_verse9"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>9 </sup>
    </b>Mo′ab is my washing pot.</p>
  <p class="sz">Over E′dom I shall throw my sandal.</p>
  <p class="sz">Over Phi·lis′ti·a I shall shout in triumph.”</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter108_verse10"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>10 </sup>
    </b>Who will bring me to the fortified city?</p>
  <p class="sz">Who will actually lead me as far as E′dom?</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter108_verse11"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>11 </sup>
    </b>Is it not you, O God, who have cast us off</p>
  <p class="sz">And who do not go forth with our armies as God?</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter108_verse12"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>12 </sup>
    </b>Do give us assistance from distress,</p>
  <p class="sz">As salvation by earthling man is worthless.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter108_verse13"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>13 </sup>
    </b>By God we shall gain vital energy,</p>
  <p class="sz">And he himself will tread down our adversaries.</p>
</book>