<book>
  <p class="w_biblebookname">Psalms</p>
  <p class="sw">To the director. Of David. A melody, a song.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter68"></a>
    <a id="chapter68_verse1"></a>
    <span class="w_ch">
      <b>68 </b>
    </span>Let God arise, let his enemies be scattered,</p>
  <p class="sz">And let those who intensely hate him flee because of him.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter68_verse2"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>2 </sup>
    </b>As smoke is driven away, may you drive them away;</p>
  <p class="sz">As wax melts because of the fire,</p>
  <p class="sz">Let the wicked ones perish from before God.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter68_verse3"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>3 </sup>
    </b>But as for the righteous, let them rejoice,</p>
  <p class="sz">Let them be elated before God,</p>
  <p class="sz">And let them exult with rejoicing.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter68_verse4"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>4 </sup>
    </b>Sing <span class="smcap">YOU </span>to God, make melody to his name;</p>
  <p class="sz">Raise up a song to the One riding through the desert plains</p>
  <p class="sz">
    <a id="page766"></a>As Jah, which is his name; and jubilate before him;</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter68_verse5"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>5 </sup>
    </b>A father of fatherless boys and a judge of widows</p>
  <p class="sz">Is God in his holy dwelling.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter68_verse6"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>6 </sup>
    </b>God is causing the solitary ones to dwell in a house;</p>
  <p class="sz">He is bringing forth prisoners into full prosperity.</p>
  <p class="sz">However, as for the stubborn, they have to reside in a scorched land.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter68_verse7"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>7 </sup>
    </b>O God, when you went forth before your people,</p>
  <p class="sz">When you marched through the desert—<i>Se′lah</i>—</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter68_verse8"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>8 </sup>
    </b>The earth itself rocked,</p>
  <p class="sz">Heaven itself also dripped because of God;</p>
  <p class="sz">This Si′nai rocked because of God, the God of Israel.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter68_verse9"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>9 </sup>
    </b>A copious downpour you began causing to fall, O God;</p>
  <p class="sz">Your inheritance, even when it was weary—you yourself reinvigorated it.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter68_verse10"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>10 </sup>
    </b>Your tent community—they have dwelt in it;</p>
  <p class="sz">With your goodness you proceeded to make it ready for the afflicted one, O God.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter68_verse11"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>11 </sup>
    </b>Jehovah himself gives the saying;</p>
  <p class="sz">The women telling the good news are a large army.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter68_verse12"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>12 </sup>
    </b>Even the kings of armies flee, they flee.</p>
  <p class="sz">As for her who abides at home, she shares in the spoil.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter68_verse13"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>13 </sup>
    </b>Although <span class="smcap">YOU </span>men kept lying between the camp ash heaps,</p>
  <p class="sz">There will be the wings of a dove covered with silver</p>
  <p class="sz">And its pinions with yellowish-green gold.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter68_verse14"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>14 </sup>
    </b>When the Almighty One scattered abroad the kings in it,</p>
  <p class="sz">It began to snow in Zal′mon.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter68_verse15"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>15 </sup>
    </b>The mountainous region of Ba′shan is a mountain of God;</p>
  <p class="sz">The mountainous region of Ba′shan is a mountain of peaks.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter68_verse16"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>16 </sup>
    </b>Why do <span class="smcap">YOU</span>, O <span class="smcap">YOU </span>mountains of peaks, keep watching enviously</p>
  <p class="sz">The mountain that God has desired for himself to dwell in?</p>
  <p class="sz">Even Jehovah himself will reside there forever.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter68_verse17"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>17 </sup>
    </b>The war chariots of God are in tens of thousands, thousands over and over again.</p>
  <p class="sz">Jehovah himself has come from Si′nai into the holy place.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter68_verse18"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>18 </sup>
    </b>You have ascended on high;</p>
  <p class="sz">You have carried away captives;</p>
  <p class="sp">You have taken gifts in the form of men,</p>
  <p class="sz">Yes, even the stubborn ones, to reside among them, O Jah God.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter68_verse19"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>19 </sup>
    </b>Blessed be Jehovah, who daily carries the load for us,</p>
  <p class="sz">The true God of our salvation. <i>Se′lah.</i></p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter68_verse20"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>20 </sup>
    </b>The true God is for us a God of saving acts;</p>
  <p class="sz">And to Jehovah the Sovereign Lord belong the ways out from death.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter68_verse21"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>21 </sup>
    </b>Indeed God himself will break the head of his enemies in pieces,</p>
  <p class="sz">The hairy crown of the head of anyone walking about in his guiltiness.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter68_verse22"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>22 </sup>
    </b>Jehovah has said: “From Ba′shan I shall bring back,</p>
  <p class="sz">
    <a id="page767"></a>I shall bring them back from the depths of the sea,</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter68_verse23"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>23 </sup>
    </b>In order that you may wash your foot in blood,</p>
  <p class="sz">That the tongue of your dogs may have its portion from the enemies.”</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter68_verse24"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>24 </sup>
    </b>They have seen your processions, O God,</p>
  <p class="sz">The processions of my God, my King, into the holy place.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter68_verse25"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>25 </sup>
    </b>The singers went in front, the players on stringed instruments after them;</p>
  <p class="sz">In between were the maidens beating tambourines.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter68_verse26"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>26 </sup>
    </b>In congregated throngs bless God,</p>
  <p class="sz">Jehovah, O <span class="smcap">YOU </span>who are from the Source of Israel.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter68_verse27"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>27 </sup>
    </b>There is little Benjamin subduing them,</p>
  <p class="sz">The princes of Judah with their shouting crowd,</p>
  <p class="sz">The princes of Zeb′u·lun, the princes of Naph′ta·li.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter68_verse28"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>28 </sup>
    </b>Your God has laid command upon your strength.</p>
  <p class="sz">Do show strength, O God, you who have acted for us.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter68_verse29"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>29 </sup>
    </b>Because of your temple at Jerusalem,</p>
  <p class="sz">Kings will bring gifts to you yourself.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter68_verse30"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>30 </sup>
    </b>Rebuke the wild beast of the reeds, the assembly of bulls,</p>
  <p class="sz">With the calves of the peoples, each one stamping down on pieces of silver.</p>
  <p class="sz">He has scattered the peoples that take delight in fights.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter68_verse31"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>31 </sup>
    </b>Bronzeware things will come out of Egypt;</p>
  <p class="sz">Cush itself will quickly stretch out its hands with gifts to God.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter68_verse32"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>32 </sup>
    </b>O <span class="smcap">YOU </span>kingdoms of the earth, sing to God,</p>
  <p class="sz">Make melody to Jehovah—<i>Se′lah</i>—</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter68_verse33"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>33 </sup>
    </b>To the One riding on the ancient heaven of heavens.</p>
  <p class="sz">Lo! He sounds with his voice, a strong voice.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter68_verse34"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>34 </sup>
    </b>A<span class="smcap">SCRIBE </span>strength to God.</p>
  <p class="sz">Over Israel his eminence is and his strength is in the clouds.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter68_verse35"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>35 </sup>
    </b>God is fear-inspiring out of your grand sanctuary.</p>
  <p class="sz">The God of Israel he is, giving strength, even might to the people.</p>
  <p class="sz">Blessed be God.</p>
</book>