<div>
  <p class="w_biblebookname">Psalms</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter135"></a>
    <a id="chapter135_verse1"></a>
    <span class="w_ch">
      <b>135 </b>
    </span>Praise Jah, <span class="smcap">YOU </span>people!</p>
  <p class="sz">Praise the name of Jehovah,</p>
  <p class="sz">Offer praise, O servants of Jehovah,</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter135_verse2"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>2 </sup>
    </b>Y<span class="smcap">OU </span>who are standing in the house of Jehovah,</p>
  <p class="sz">In the courtyards of the house of our God.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter135_verse3"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>3 </sup>
    </b>Praise Jah, for Jehovah is good.</p>
  <p class="sz">Make melody to his name, for it is pleasant.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter135_verse4"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>4 </sup>
    </b>For Jah has chosen even Jacob for himself,</p>
  <p class="sz">
    <a id="page827"></a>Israel for his special property.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter135_verse5"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>5 </sup>
    </b>For I myself well know that Jehovah is great,</p>
  <p class="sz">And our Lord is more than all other gods.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter135_verse6"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>6 </sup>
    </b>Everything that Jehovah delighted to do he has done</p>
  <p class="sz">In the heavens and in the earth, in the seas and all the watery deeps.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter135_verse7"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>7 </sup>
    </b>He is causing vapors to ascend from the extremity of the earth;</p>
  <p class="sz">He has made even sluices for the rain;</p>
  <p class="sz">He is bringing forth the wind from his storehouses,</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter135_verse8"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>8 </sup>
    </b>He who struck down the firstborn ones of Egypt,</p>
  <p class="sz">Both man and beast.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter135_verse9"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>9 </sup>
    </b>He sent signs and miracles into the midst of you, O Egypt,</p>
  <p class="sz">Upon Phar′aoh and upon all his servants;</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter135_verse10"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>10 </sup>
    </b>He who struck down many nations</p>
  <p class="sz">And killed potent kings,</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter135_verse11"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>11 </sup>
    </b>Even Si′hon the king of the Am′or·ites</p>
  <p class="sz">And Og the king of Ba′shan</p>
  <p class="sz">And all the kingdoms of Ca′naan,</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter135_verse12"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>12 </sup>
    </b>And who gave their land as an inheritance,</p>
  <p class="sz">An inheritance to Israel his people.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter135_verse13"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>13 </sup>
    </b>O Jehovah, your name is to time indefinite.</p>
  <p class="sz">O Jehovah, your memorial is to generation after generation.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter135_verse14"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>14 </sup>
    </b>For Jehovah will plead the cause of his people,</p>
  <p class="sz">And he will feel regret even over his servants.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter135_verse15"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>15 </sup>
    </b>The idols of the nations are silver and gold,</p>
  <p class="sz">The work of the hands of earthling man.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter135_verse16"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>16 </sup>
    </b>A mouth they have, but they can speak nothing;</p>
  <p class="sz">Eyes they have, but they can see nothing;</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter135_verse17"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>17 </sup>
    </b>Ears they have, but they can give ear to nothing.</p>
  <p class="sz">Also there exists no spirit in their mouth.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter135_verse18"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>18 </sup>
    </b>Those making them will become just like them,</p>
  <p class="sz">Everyone who is trusting in them.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter135_verse19"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>19 </sup>
    </b>O house of Israel, do <span class="smcap">YOU </span>men bless Jehovah.</p>
  <p class="sz">O house of Aaron, do <span class="smcap">YOU </span>men bless Jehovah.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter135_verse20"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>20 </sup>
    </b>O house of Le′vi, do <span class="smcap">YOU </span>men bless Jehovah.</p>
  <p class="sz">Y<span class="smcap">OU </span>fearers of Jehovah, bless Jehovah.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter135_verse21"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>21 </sup>
    </b>Blessed out of Zion be Jehovah,</p>
  <p class="sz">Who is residing in Jerusalem.</p>
  <p class="sz">Praise Jah, <span class="smcap">YOU </span>people!</p>
</div>