<book>
  <p class="w_biblebookname">Psalms</p>
  <p class="sw">A melody of A′saph.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter79"></a>
    <a id="chapter79_verse1"></a>
    <span class="w_ch">
      <b>79 </b>
    </span>O God, the nations have come into your inheritance;</p>
  <p class="sz">They have defiled your holy temple;</p>
  <p class="sz">
    <a id="page780"></a>They have laid Jerusalem in a heap of ruins.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter79_verse2"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>2 </sup>
    </b>They have given the dead body of your servants as food to the fowls of the heavens,</p>
  <p class="sz">The flesh of your loyal ones to the wild beasts of the earth.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter79_verse3"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>3 </sup>
    </b>They have poured out their blood like water</p>
  <p class="sz">All around Jerusalem, and there is no one to do the burying.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter79_verse4"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>4 </sup>
    </b>We have become a reproach to our neighbors,</p>
  <p class="sz">A derision and a jeering to those round about us.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter79_verse5"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>5 </sup>
    </b>How long, O Jehovah, will you be incensed? Forever?</p>
  <p class="sz">How long will your ardor burn just like fire?</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter79_verse6"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>6 </sup>
    </b>Pour out your rage upon the nations that have not known you,</p>
  <p class="sz">And upon the kingdoms that have not called upon your own name.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter79_verse7"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>7 </sup>
    </b>For they have eaten up Jacob,</p>
  <p class="sz">And they have caused his own abiding place to be desolated.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter79_verse8"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>8 </sup>
    </b>Do not remember against us the errors of ancestors.</p>
  <p class="sz">Hurry! Let your mercies confront us,</p>
  <p class="sz">For we have become greatly impoverished.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter79_verse9"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>9 </sup>
    </b>Help us, O God of our salvation,</p>
  <p class="sz">For the sake of the glory of your name;</p>
  <p class="sz">And deliver us and cover over our sins on account of your name.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter79_verse10"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>10 </sup>
    </b>Why should the nations say: “Where is their God?”</p>
  <p class="sz">Among the nations let there be known before our eyes</p>
  <p class="sz">The avenging of the blood of your servants that has been shed.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter79_verse11"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>11 </sup>
    </b>May the sighing of the prisoner come in even before you.</p>
  <p class="sz">According to the greatness of your arm preserve those appointed to death.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter79_verse12"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>12 </sup>
    </b>And repay to our neighbors seven times into their bosom</p>
  <p class="sz">Their reproach with which they have reproached you, O Jehovah.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter79_verse13"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>13 </sup>
    </b>As for us your people and the flock of your pasturage,</p>
  <p class="sz">We shall give thanks to you to time indefinite;</p>
  <p class="sz">From generation to generation we shall declare your praise.</p>
</book>