<book>
  <p class="w_biblebookname">Psalms</p>
  <p class="sw">Regarding Solomon.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter72"></a>
    <a id="chapter72_verse1"></a>
    <span class="w_ch">
      <b>72 </b>
    </span>O God, give your own judicial decisions to the king,</p>
  <p class="sz">And your righteousness to the son of the king.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter72_verse2"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>2 </sup>
    </b>May he plead the cause of your people with righteousness</p>
  <p class="sz">And of your afflicted ones with judicial decision.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter72_verse3"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>3 </sup>
    </b>Let the mountains carry peace to the people,</p>
  <p class="sz">Also the hills, through righteousness.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter72_verse4"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>4 </sup>
    </b>Let him judge the afflicted ones of the people,</p>
  <p class="sz">Let him save the sons of the poor one,</p>
  <p class="sz">And let him crush the defrauder.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter72_verse5"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>5 </sup>
    </b>They will fear you as long as there is a sun,</p>
  <p class="sz">And before the moon for generation after generation.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter72_verse6"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>6 </sup>
    </b>He will descend like the rain upon the mown grass,</p>
  <p class="sz">Like copious showers that wet the earth.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter72_verse7"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>7 </sup>
    </b>In his days the righteous one will sprout,</p>
  <p class="sz">And the abundance of peace until the moon is no more.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter72_verse8"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>8 </sup>
    </b>And he will have subjects from sea to sea</p>
  <p class="sz">And from the River to the ends of the earth.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter72_verse9"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>9 </sup>
    </b>Before him the inhabitants of waterless regions will bow down,</p>
  <p class="sz">And his very enemies will lick the dust itself.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter72_verse10"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>10 </sup>
    </b>The kings of Tar′shish and of the islands—</p>
  <p class="sz">Tribute they will pay.</p>
  <p class="sp">The kings of She′ba and of Se′ba—</p>
  <p class="sz">A gift they will present.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter72_verse11"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>11 </sup>
    </b>And to him all the kings will prostrate themselves;</p>
  <p class="sz">All the nations, for their part, will serve him.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter72_verse12"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>12 </sup>
    </b>For he will deliver the poor one crying for help,</p>
  <p class="sz">Also the afflicted one and whoever has no helper.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter72_verse13"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>13 </sup>
    </b>He will feel sorry for the lowly one and the poor one,</p>
  <p class="sz">And the souls of the poor ones he will save.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter72_verse14"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>14 </sup>
    </b>From oppression and from violence he will redeem their soul,</p>
  <p class="sz">And their blood will be precious in his eyes.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter72_verse15"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>15 </sup>
    </b>And let him live, and to him let some of the gold of She′ba be given.</p>
  <p class="sz">And in his behalf let prayer be made constantly;</p>
  <p class="sz">All day long let him be blessed.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter72_verse16"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>16 </sup>
    </b>There will come to be plenty of grain on the earth;</p>
  <p class="sz">On the top of the mountains there will be an overflow.</p>
  <p class="sp">His fruit will be as in Leb′a·non,</p>
  <p class="sz">And those who are from the city will blossom like the vegetation of the earth.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter72_verse17"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>17 </sup>
    </b>Let his name prove to be to time indefinite;</p>
  <p class="sz">Before the sun let his name have increase,</p>
  <p class="sp">And by means of him let them bless themselves;</p>
  <p class="sz">Let all nations pronounce him happy.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter72_verse18"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>18 </sup>
    </b>Blessed be Jehovah God, Israel’s God,</p>
  <p class="sz">Who alone is doing wonderful works.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter72_verse19"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>19 </sup>
    </b>And blessed be his glorious <a id="page772"></a>name to time indefinite,</p>
  <p class="sz">And let his glory fill the whole earth.</p>
  <p class="sz">Amen and Amen.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter72_verse20"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>20 </sup>
    </b>The prayers of David, the son of Jes′se, have come to their end.</p>
</book>