<div>
  <p class="w_biblebookname">Psalms</p>
  <p class="sw">To the director. A melody of David.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter21"></a>
    <a id="chapter21_verse1"></a>
    <span class="w_ch">
      <b>21 </b>
    </span>O Jehovah, in your strength the king rejoices;</p>
  <p class="sz">And in your salvation how very joyful he wants to be!</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter21_verse2"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>2 </sup>
    </b>The desire of his heart you have given him,</p>
  <p class="sz">And the wish of his lips you have not withheld. <i>Se′lah.</i></p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter21_verse3"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>3 </sup>
    </b>For you proceeded to meet him with blessings of good,</p>
  <p class="sz">And to place on his head a crown of refined gold.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter21_verse4"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>4 </sup>
    </b>Life he asked of you. You gave it to him,</p>
  <p class="sz">Length of days to time indefinite, even forever.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter21_verse5"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>5 </sup>
    </b>His glory is great in your salvation.</p>
  <p class="sz">
    <a id="page729"></a>Dignity and splendor you put upon him.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter21_verse6"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>6 </sup>
    </b>For you constitute him highly blessed forever;</p>
  <p class="sz">You make him feel glad with the rejoicing at your face.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter21_verse7"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>7 </sup>
    </b>For the king is trusting in Jehovah,</p>
  <p class="sz">Even in the loving-kindness of the Most High. He will not be caused to totter.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter21_verse8"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>8 </sup>
    </b>Your hand will find all your enemies;</p>
  <p class="sz">Your own right hand will find those hating you.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter21_verse9"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>9 </sup>
    </b>You will constitute them as a fiery furnace at the appointed time for your attention.</p>
  <p class="sz">Jehovah in his anger will swallow them up, and the fire will devour them.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter21_verse10"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>10 </sup>
    </b>Their fruitage you will destroy from the very earth,</p>
  <p class="sz">And their offspring from the sons of men.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter21_verse11"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>11 </sup>
    </b>For they have directed against you what is bad;</p>
  <p class="sz">They have thought out ideas that they are unable to carry out.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter21_verse12"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>12 </sup>
    </b>For you will make them turn their backs in flight</p>
  <p class="sz">By your bowstrings that you make ready against their face.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter21_verse13"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>13 </sup>
    </b>O be exalted in your strength, O Jehovah.</p>
  <p class="sz">We will sing and make melody to your mightiness.</p>
</div>