<book>
  <p class="w_biblebookname">Psalms</p>
  <p class="sw">To the director over Ma′ha·lath. Mas′kil. Of David.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter53"></a>
    <a id="chapter53_verse1"></a>
    <span class="w_ch">
      <b>53 </b>
    </span>The senseless one has said in his heart:</p>
  <p class="sz">“There is no Jehovah.”</p>
  <p class="sp">They have acted ruinously and have acted detestably in unrighteousness;</p>
  <p class="sz">There is no one doing good.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter53_verse2"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>2 </sup>
    </b>As for God, he has looked down from heaven itself upon the sons of men,</p>
  <p class="sz">To see whether there exists anyone having insight, anyone seeking Jehovah.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter53_verse3"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>3 </sup>
    </b>They have all of them turned back, they are all alike corrupt;</p>
  <p class="sz">There is no one doing good,</p>
  <p class="sl">Not even one.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter53_verse4"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>4 </sup>
    </b>Have none of the practicers of what is hurtful got knowledge,</p>
  <p class="sz">Eating up my people as they have eaten bread?</p>
  <p class="sz">They have not called even upon Jehovah.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter53_verse5"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>5 </sup>
    </b>There they were filled with a great dread,</p>
  <p class="sz">Where there had proved to be no dread;</p>
  <p class="sp">For God himself will certainly scatter the bones of anyone camping against you.</p>
  <p class="sz">You will certainly put them to shame, for Jehovah himself has rejected them.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter53_verse6"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>6 </sup>
    </b>O that out of Zion there were the grand salvation of Israel!</p>
  <p class="sz">When Jehovah gathers back the captive ones of his people,</p>
  <p class="sz">Let Jacob be joyful, let Israel rejoice.</p>
</book>