<div>
  <p class="w_biblebookname">Psalms</p>
  <p class="sw">To the director on stringed instruments on the lower octave. A melody of David.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter6"></a>
    <a id="chapter6_verse1"></a>
    <span class="w_ch">
      <b>6 </b>
    </span>O Jehovah, do not in your anger reprove me,</p>
  <p class="sz">And do not in your rage correct me.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter6_verse2"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>2 </sup>
    </b>Show me favor, O Jehovah, for I am fading away.</p>
  <p class="sz">Heal me, O Jehovah, for my bones have been disturbed.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter6_verse3"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>3 </sup>
    </b>Yes, my own soul has been very much disturbed;</p>
  <p class="sz">And you, O Jehovah—how long?</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter6_verse4"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>4 </sup>
    </b>Do return, O Jehovah, do rescue my soul;</p>
  <p class="sz">Save me for the sake of your loving-kindness.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter6_verse5"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>5 </sup>
    </b>For in death there is no mention of you;</p>
  <p class="sz">In She′ol who will laud you?</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter6_verse6"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>6 </sup>
    </b>I have grown weary with my sighing;</p>
  <p class="sz">All night long I make my couch swim;</p>
  <p class="sz">With my tears I make my own divan overflow.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter6_verse7"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>7 </sup>
    </b>From vexation my eye has become weak,</p>
  <p class="sz">
    <a id="page718"></a>It has grown old because of all those showing hostility to me.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter6_verse8"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>8 </sup>
    </b>Get away from me, all <span class="smcap">YOU </span>practicers of what is hurtful,</p>
  <p class="sz">For Jehovah will certainly hear the sound of my weeping.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter6_verse9"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>9 </sup>
    </b>Jehovah will indeed hear my request for favor;</p>
  <p class="sz">Jehovah himself will accept my own prayer.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter6_verse10"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>10 </sup>
    </b>All my enemies will be very much ashamed and disturbed;</p>
  <p class="sz">They will turn back, they will be ashamed instantly.</p>
</div>