<book>
  <p class="w_biblebookname">Psalms</p>
  <p class="sw">To the director. A melody of David.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter31"></a>
    <a id="chapter31_verse1"></a>
    <span class="w_ch">
      <b>31 </b>
    </span>In you, O Jehovah, have I taken refuge.</p>
  <p class="sz">O may I never be ashamed.</p>
  <p class="sz">In your righteousness provide escape for me.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter31_verse2"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>2 </sup>
    </b>Incline to me your ear.</p>
  <p class="sz">
    <a id="page736"></a>Deliver me speedily.</p>
  <p class="sp">Become for me a rocky stronghold,</p>
  <p class="sz">A house of strongholds to save me.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter31_verse3"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>3 </sup>
    </b>For you are my crag and my stronghold;</p>
  <p class="sz">And for the sake of your name you will lead me and conduct me.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter31_verse4"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>4 </sup>
    </b>You will bring me out of the net that they have hidden for me,</p>
  <p class="sz">For you are my fortress.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter31_verse5"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>5 </sup>
    </b>Into your hand I entrust my spirit.</p>
  <p class="sz">You have redeemed me, O Jehovah the God of truth.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter31_verse6"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>6 </sup>
    </b>I do hate those paying regard to worthless, vain idols;</p>
  <p class="sz">But as for me, in Jehovah I do trust.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter31_verse7"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>7 </sup>
    </b>I will be joyful and rejoice in your loving-kindness,</p>
  <p class="sz">In that you have seen my affliction;</p>
  <p class="sl">You have known about the distresses of my soul,</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter31_verse8"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>8 </sup>
    </b>And you have not surrendered me into the hand of the enemy.</p>
  <p class="sz">You have made my feet stand in a roomy place.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter31_verse9"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>9 </sup>
    </b>Show me favor, O Jehovah, for I am in sore straits.</p>
  <p class="sz">With vexation my eye has become weak, my soul and my belly.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter31_verse10"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>10 </sup>
    </b>For with grief my life has come to an end,</p>
  <p class="sz">And my years in sighing.</p>
  <p class="sp">Because of my error my power has stumbled,</p>
  <p class="sz">And my very bones have become weak.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter31_verse11"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>11 </sup>
    </b>From the standpoint of all those showing hostility to me I have become a reproach,</p>
  <p class="sz">And to my neighbors very much so,</p>
  <p class="sp">And a dread to my acquaintances.</p>
  <p class="sz">When seeing me out of doors, they have fled from me.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter31_verse12"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>12 </sup>
    </b>Like someone dead and not in the heart, I have been forgotten;</p>
  <p class="sz">I have become like a damaged vessel;</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter31_verse13"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>13 </sup>
    </b>For I have heard the bad report by many,</p>
  <p class="sz">Fright being on all sides.</p>
  <p class="sp">When they mass together as one against me,</p>
  <p class="sz">It is to take away my soul that they do scheme.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter31_verse14"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>14 </sup>
    </b>But I—in you I have put my trust, O Jehovah.</p>
  <p class="sz">I have said: “You are my God.”</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter31_verse15"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>15 </sup>
    </b>My times are in your hand.</p>
  <p class="sz">Deliver me from the hand of my enemies and from those pursuing me.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter31_verse16"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>16 </sup>
    </b>Do cause your face to shine upon your servant.</p>
  <p class="sz">Save me in your loving-kindness.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter31_verse17"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>17 </sup>
    </b>O Jehovah, may I not be ashamed, for I have called on you.</p>
  <p class="sz">May the wicked ones be ashamed;</p>
  <p class="sz">May they keep silent in She′ol.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter31_verse18"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>18 </sup>
    </b>May false lips become speechless,</p>
  <p class="sz">That are speaking against the righteous one, unrestrainedly in haughtiness and contempt.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter31_verse19"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>19 </sup>
    </b>How abundant your goodness is, which you have treasured up for those fearing you!</p>
  <p class="sz">Which you have rendered to those taking refuge in you,</p>
  <p class="sz">In front of the sons of men.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter31_verse20"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>20 </sup>
    </b>You will conceal them in the secret place of your person</p>
  <p class="sz">From the banding together of men.</p>
  <p class="sz">You will hide them in your <a id="page737"></a>booth from the quarreling of tongues.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter31_verse21"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>21 </sup>
    </b>Blessed be Jehovah,</p>
  <p class="sz">For he has rendered wonderful loving-kindness to me in a city under stress.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter31_verse22"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>22 </sup>
    </b>As for me, I said when I became panicky:</p>
  <p class="sz">“I shall certainly be exterminated from in front of your eyes.”</p>
  <p class="sz">Surely you have heard the voice of my entreaties when I cried to you for help.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter31_verse23"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>23 </sup>
    </b>O love Jehovah, all <span class="smcap">YOU </span>loyal ones of his.</p>
  <p class="sz">The faithful ones Jehovah is safeguarding,</p>
  <p class="sz">But he is rewarding exceedingly anyone showing haughtiness.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter31_verse24"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>24 </sup>
    </b>Be courageous, and may <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>heart be strong,</p>
  <p class="sz">All <span class="smcap">YOU </span>who are waiting for Jehovah.</p>
</book>