<book>
  <p class="w_biblebookname">Psalms</p>
  <p class="sw">To the director. Of the sons of Ko′rah upon The Maidens. A song.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter46"></a>
    <a id="chapter46_verse1"></a>
    <span class="w_ch">
      <b>46 </b>
    </span>God is for us a refuge and strength,</p>
  <p class="sz">A help that is readily to be found during distresses.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter46_verse2"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>2 </sup>
    </b>That is why we shall not fear, though the earth undergo change</p>
  <p class="sz">And though the mountains totter into the heart of the vast sea;</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter46_verse3"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>3 </sup>
    </b>Though its waters be boisterous, foam over,</p>
  <p class="sz">Though the mountains rock at its uproar. <i>Se′lah.</i></p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter46_verse4"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>4 </sup>
    </b>There is a river the streams of which make the city of God rejoice,</p>
  <p class="sz">The holiest grand tabernacle of the Most High.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter46_verse5"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>5 </sup>
    </b>God is in the midst of the city; it will not be made to totter.</p>
  <p class="sz">God will help it at the appearance of morning.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter46_verse6"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>6 </sup>
    </b>The nations became boisterous, the kingdoms tottered;</p>
  <p class="sz">He sounded with his voice, the earth proceeded to melt.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter46_verse7"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>7 </sup>
    </b>Jehovah of armies is with us;</p>
  <p class="sz">The God of Jacob is a secure height for us. <i>Se′lah.</i></p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter46_verse8"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>8 </sup>
    </b>Come, <span class="smcap">YOU </span>people, behold the activities of Jehovah,</p>
  <p class="sz">How he has set astonishing events on the earth.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter46_verse9"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>9 </sup>
    </b>He is making wars to cease to the extremity of the earth.</p>
  <p class="sz">The bow he breaks apart and does cut the spear in pieces;</p>
  <p class="sl">The wagons he burns in the fire.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter46_verse10"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>10 </sup>
    </b>“Give in, <span class="smcap">YOU </span>people, and know that I am God.</p>
  <p class="sz">I will be exalted among the nations,</p>
  <p class="sz">I will be exalted in the earth.”</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter46_verse11"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>11 </sup>
    </b>Jehovah of armies is with us;</p>
  <p class="sz">The God of Jacob is a secure height for us. <i>Se′lah.</i></p>
</book>