<book>
  <p class="w_biblebookname">Psalms</p>
  <p class="sw">To the director. A song, a melody.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter66"></a>
    <a id="chapter66_verse1"></a>
    <span class="w_ch">
      <b>66 </b>
    </span>Shout in triumph to God, all <span class="smcap">YOU </span>people of the earth.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter66_verse2"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>2 </sup>
    </b>Make melody to the glory of his name.</p>
  <p class="sz">Render his praise glorious.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter66_verse3"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>3 </sup>
    </b>Say to God: “How fear-inspiring your works are!</p>
  <p class="sz">Because of the abundance of your strength your enemies will come cringing to you.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter66_verse4"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>4 </sup>
    </b>All people of the earth will bow down to you,</p>
  <p class="sz">And they will make melody to you, they will make melody to your name.” <i>Se′lah.</i></p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter66_verse5"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>5 </sup>
    </b>Come, <span class="smcap">YOU </span>people, and see the activities of God.</p>
  <p class="sz">His dealing with the sons of men is fear-inspiring.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter66_verse6"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>6 </sup>
    </b>He has changed the sea into dry land;</p>
  <p class="sz">Through the river they went crossing over on foot.</p>
  <p class="sz">There we began to rejoice in him.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter66_verse7"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>7 </sup>
    </b>He is ruling by his mightiness to time indefinite.</p>
  <p class="sz">Upon the nations his own eyes keep watch.</p>
  <p class="sz">As for those who are stubborn, let them not be exalted in themselves. <i>Se′lah.</i></p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter66_verse8"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>8 </sup>
    </b>Bless our God, O <span class="smcap">YOU </span>peoples,</p>
  <p class="sz">And cause the voice of praise to him to be heard.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter66_verse9"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>9 </sup>
    </b>He is setting our soul in life,</p>
  <p class="sz">And he has not allowed our foot to totter.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="page765"></a>
    <a id="chapter66_verse10"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>10 </sup>
    </b>For you have examined us, O God;</p>
  <p class="sz">You have refined us as when refining silver.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter66_verse11"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>11 </sup>
    </b>You have brought us into a hunting net;</p>
  <p class="sz">You have put pressure on our hips.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter66_verse12"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>12 </sup>
    </b>You have made mortal man to ride over our head;</p>
  <p class="sz">We have come through fire and through water,</p>
  <p class="sl">And you proceeded to bring us forth to relief.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter66_verse13"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>13 </sup>
    </b>I shall come into your house with whole burnt offerings;</p>
  <p class="sz">I shall pay to you my vows</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter66_verse14"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>14 </sup>
    </b>That my lips have opened up to say</p>
  <p class="sz">And that my mouth has spoken when I was in sore straits.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter66_verse15"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>15 </sup>
    </b>Whole burnt offerings of fatlings I shall offer up to you,</p>
  <p class="sz">With the sacrificial smoke of rams.</p>
  <p class="sz">I shall render up a bull with he-goats. <i>Se′lah.</i></p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter66_verse16"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>16 </sup>
    </b>Come, listen, all <span class="smcap">YOU </span>who fear God, and I will relate</p>
  <p class="sz">What he has done for my soul.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter66_verse17"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>17 </sup>
    </b>To him I called with my mouth,</p>
  <p class="sz">And there was an extolling with my tongue.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter66_verse18"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>18 </sup>
    </b>If I have regarded anything hurtful in my heart,</p>
  <p class="sz">Jehovah will not hear me.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter66_verse19"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>19 </sup>
    </b>Truly God has heard;</p>
  <p class="sz">He has paid attention to the voice of my prayer.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter66_verse20"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>20 </sup>
    </b>Blessed be God, who has not turned aside my prayer,</p>
  <p class="sz">Nor his loving-kindness from me.</p>
</book>