<div>
  <p class="w_biblebookname">Proverbs</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter9"></a>
    <a id="chapter9_verse1"></a>
    <span class="w_ch">
      <b>9 </b>
    </span>True wisdom has built its house; it has hewn out its seven pillars. <a id="chapter9_verse2"></a><b><sup>2 </sup></b>It has organized its meat slaughtering; it has mixed its wine; more than that, it has set in order its table. <a id="chapter9_verse3"></a><b><sup>3 </sup></b>It has sent forth its lady attendants, that it may call out on top of the heights of the town: <a id="chapter9_verse4"></a><b><sup>4 </sup></b>“Whoever is inexperienced, let him turn aside here.” Whoever is in want of heart—she has said to him: <a id="chapter9_verse5"></a><b><sup>5 </sup></b>“Come, feed yourselves with my bread and share in drinking the wine that I have mixed. <a id="chapter9_verse6"></a><b><sup>6 </sup></b>Leave the inexperienced ones and keep living, and walk straight in the way of understanding.”</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="page846"></a>
    <a id="chapter9_verse7"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>7 </sup>
    </b>He that is correcting the ridiculer is taking to himself dishonor, and he that is giving a reproof to someone wicked—a defect in him. <a id="chapter9_verse8"></a><b><sup>8 </sup></b>Do not reprove a ridiculer, that he may not hate you. Give a reproof to a wise person and he will love you. <a id="chapter9_verse9"></a><b><sup>9 </sup></b>Give to a wise person and he will become still wiser. Impart knowledge to someone righteous and he will increase in learning.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter9_verse10"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>10 </sup>
    </b>The fear of Jehovah is the start of wisdom, and the knowledge of the Most Holy One is what understanding is. <a id="chapter9_verse11"></a><b><sup>11 </sup></b>For by me your days will become many, and to you years of life will be added. <a id="chapter9_verse12"></a><b><sup>12 </sup></b>If you have become wise, you have become wise in your own behalf; and if you have ridiculed, you will bear it, just you alone.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter9_verse13"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>13 </sup>
    </b>A woman of stupidity is boisterous. She is simplemindedness itself and has come to know nothing whatever. <a id="chapter9_verse14"></a><b><sup>14 </sup></b>And she has seated herself at the entrance of her house, upon a seat, in the high places of the town, <a id="chapter9_verse15"></a><b><sup>15 </sup></b>to call out to those passing along the way, those who are going straight ahead on their paths: <a id="chapter9_verse16"></a><b><sup>16 </sup></b>“Whoever is inexperienced, let him turn aside here.” And whoever is in want of heart—she has also said to him: <a id="chapter9_verse17"></a><b><sup>17 </sup></b>“Stolen waters themselves are sweet, and bread eaten in secrecy—it is pleasant.” <a id="chapter9_verse18"></a><b><sup>18 </sup></b>But he has not come to know that those impotent in death are there, that those called in by her are in the low places of She′ol.</p>
</div>