<div>
  <p class="w_biblebookname">Proverbs</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter5"></a>
    <a id="chapter5_verse1"></a>
    <span class="w_ch">
      <b>5 </b>
    </span>My son, to my wisdom O do pay attention. To my discernment incline your ears, <a id="chapter5_verse2"></a><b><sup>2 </sup></b>so as to guard thinking abilities; <a id="page842"></a>and may your own lips safeguard knowledge itself.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter5_verse3"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>3 </sup>
    </b>For as a honeycomb the lips of a strange woman keep dripping, and her palate is smoother than oil. <a id="chapter5_verse4"></a><b><sup>4 </sup></b>But the aftereffect from her is as bitter as wormwood; it is as sharp as a two-edged sword. <a id="chapter5_verse5"></a><b><sup>5 </sup></b>Her feet are descending to death. Her very steps take hold on She′ol itself. <a id="chapter5_verse6"></a><b><sup>6 </sup></b>The path of life she does not contemplate. Her tracks have wandered she does not know where. <a id="chapter5_verse7"></a><b><sup>7 </sup></b>So now, O sons, listen to me and do not turn away from the sayings of my mouth. <a id="chapter5_verse8"></a><b><sup>8 </sup></b>Keep your way far off from alongside her, and do not get near to the entrance of her house, <a id="chapter5_verse9"></a><b><sup>9 </sup></b>that you may not give to others your dignity, nor your years to what is cruel; <a id="chapter5_verse10"></a><b><sup>10 </sup></b>that strangers may not satisfy themselves with your power, nor the things you got by pain be in the house of a foreigner, <a id="chapter5_verse11"></a><b><sup>11 </sup></b>nor you have to groan in your future when your flesh and your organism come to an end. <a id="chapter5_verse12"></a><b><sup>12 </sup></b>And you will have to say: “How I have hated discipline and my heart has disrespected even reproof! <a id="chapter5_verse13"></a><b><sup>13 </sup></b>And I have not listened to the voice of my instructors, and to my teachers I have not inclined my ear. <a id="chapter5_verse14"></a><b><sup>14 </sup></b>Easily I have come to be in every sort of badness in the midst of the congregation and of the assembly.”</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter5_verse15"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>15 </sup>
    </b>Drink water out of your own cistern, and tricklings out of the midst of your own well. <a id="chapter5_verse16"></a><b><sup>16 </sup></b>Should your springs be scattered out of doors, your streams of water in the public squares themselves? <a id="chapter5_verse17"></a><b><sup>17 </sup></b>Let them prove to be for you alone, and not for strangers with you. <a id="chapter5_verse18"></a><b><sup>18 </sup></b>Let your water source prove to be blessed, and rejoice with the wife of your youth, <a id="chapter5_verse19"></a><b><sup>19 </sup></b>a lovable hind and a charming mountain goat. Let her own breasts intoxicate you at all times. With her love may you be in an ecstasy constantly. <a id="chapter5_verse20"></a><b><sup>20 </sup></b>So why should you, my son, be in an ecstasy with a strange woman or embrace the bosom of a foreign woman? <a id="chapter5_verse21"></a><b><sup>21 </sup></b>For the ways of man are in front of the eyes of Jehovah, and he is contemplating all his tracks. <a id="chapter5_verse22"></a><b><sup>22 </sup></b>His own errors will catch the wicked one, and in the ropes of his own sin he will be taken hold of. <a id="chapter5_verse23"></a><b><sup>23 </sup></b>He will be the one to die because there is no discipline, and because in the abundance of his foolishness he goes astray.</p>
</div>