<book>
  <p class="w_biblebookname">Proverbs</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter8"></a>
    <a id="chapter8_verse1"></a>
    <span class="w_ch">
      <b>8 </b>
    </span>Does not wisdom keep calling out, and discernment keep giving forth its voice? <a id="chapter8_verse2"></a><b><sup>2 </sup></b>On top of the heights, by the way, at the crossing of the roadways it has stationed itself. <a id="chapter8_verse3"></a><b><sup>3 </sup></b>At the side of the gates, at the mouth of the town, at the going in of the entrances it keeps crying loudly:</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter8_verse4"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>4 </sup>
    </b>“To <span class="smcap">YOU</span>, O men, I am calling, and my voice is to the sons of men. <a id="chapter8_verse5"></a><b><sup>5 </sup></b>O inexperienced ones, understand shrewdness; and <span class="smcap">YOU </span>stupid ones, understand heart. <a id="chapter8_verse6"></a><b><sup>6 </sup></b>Listen, for it is about the foremost things that I speak, and the opening of my lips is about uprightness. <a id="chapter8_verse7"></a><b><sup>7 </sup></b>For my palate in low tones utters truth itself; and wickedness is something detestable to my lips. <a id="chapter8_verse8"></a><b><sup>8 </sup></b>All the sayings of my mouth are in righteousness. Among them there is nothing twisted or crooked. <a id="chapter8_verse9"></a><b><sup>9 </sup></b>All of them are straight to the discerning one, and upright to the ones finding knowledge. <a id="chapter8_verse10"></a><b><sup>10 </sup></b>T<span class="smcap">AKE </span>my discipline and not silver, and knowledge rather than choice gold. <a id="chapter8_verse11"></a><b><sup>11 </sup></b>For wisdom is better than corals, and all other delights themselves cannot be made equal to it.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter8_verse12"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>12 </sup>
    </b>“I, wisdom, I have resided with shrewdness and I find even the knowledge of thinking abilities. <a id="page845"></a><a id="chapter8_verse13"></a><b><sup>13 </sup></b>The fear of Jehovah means the hating of bad. Self-exaltation and pride and the bad way and the perverse mouth I have hated. <a id="chapter8_verse14"></a><b><sup>14 </sup></b>I have counsel and practical wisdom. I—understanding; I have mightiness. <a id="chapter8_verse15"></a><b><sup>15 </sup></b>By me kings themselves keep reigning, and high officials themselves keep decreeing righteousness. <a id="chapter8_verse16"></a><b><sup>16 </sup></b>By me princes themselves keep ruling as princes, and nobles are all judging in righteousness. <a id="chapter8_verse17"></a><b><sup>17 </sup></b>Those loving me I myself love, and those looking for me are the ones that find me. <a id="chapter8_verse18"></a><b><sup>18 </sup></b>Riches and glory are with me, hereditary values and righteousness. <a id="chapter8_verse19"></a><b><sup>19 </sup></b>My fruitage is better than gold, even than refined gold, and my produce than choice silver. <a id="chapter8_verse20"></a><b><sup>20 </sup></b>In the path of righteousness I walk, in the middle of the roadways of judgment, <a id="chapter8_verse21"></a><b><sup>21 </sup></b>to cause those loving me to take possession of substance; and their storehouses I keep filled.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter8_verse22"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>22 </sup>
    </b>“Jehovah himself produced me as the beginning of his way, the earliest of his achievements of long ago. <a id="chapter8_verse23"></a><b><sup>23 </sup></b>From time indefinite I was installed, from the start, from times earlier than the earth. <a id="chapter8_verse24"></a><b><sup>24 </sup></b>When there were no watery deeps I was brought forth as with labor pains, when there were no springs heavily charged with water. <a id="chapter8_verse25"></a><b><sup>25 </sup></b>Before the mountains themselves had been settled down, ahead of the hills, I was brought forth as with labor pains, <a id="chapter8_verse26"></a><b><sup>26 </sup></b>when as yet he had not made the earth and the open spaces and the first part of the dust masses of the productive land. <a id="chapter8_verse27"></a><b><sup>27 </sup></b>When he prepared the heavens I was there; when he decreed a circle upon the face of the watery deep, <a id="chapter8_verse28"></a><b><sup>28 </sup></b>when he made firm the cloud masses above, when he caused the fountains of the watery deep to be strong, <a id="chapter8_verse29"></a><b><sup>29 </sup></b>when he set for the sea his decree that the waters themselves should not pass beyond his order, when he decreed the foundations of the earth, <a id="chapter8_verse30"></a><b><sup>30 </sup></b>then I came to be beside him as a master worker, and I came to be the one he was specially fond of day by day, I being glad before him all the time, <a id="chapter8_verse31"></a><b><sup>31 </sup></b>being glad at the productive land of his earth, and the things I was fond of were with the sons of men.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter8_verse32"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>32 </sup>
    </b>“And now, O sons, listen to me; yes, happy are the ones that keep my very ways. <a id="chapter8_verse33"></a><b><sup>33 </sup></b>Listen to discipline and become wise, and do not show any neglect. <a id="chapter8_verse34"></a><b><sup>34 </sup></b>Happy is the man that is listening to me by keeping awake at my doors day by day, by watching at the posts of my entrances. <a id="chapter8_verse35"></a><b><sup>35 </sup></b>For the one finding me will certainly find life, and gets goodwill from Jehovah. <a id="chapter8_verse36"></a><b><sup>36 </sup></b>But the one missing me is doing violence to his soul; all those intensely hating me are the ones that do love death.”</p>
</book>