<book>
  <p class="w_biblebookname">Proverbs</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter14"></a>
    <a id="chapter14_verse1"></a>
    <span class="w_ch">
      <b>14 </b>
    </span>The truly wise woman has built up her house, but the foolish one tears it down with her own hands.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter14_verse2"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>2 </sup>
    </b>The one walking in his uprightness is fearing Jehovah, but the one crooked in his ways is despising Him.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter14_verse3"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>3 </sup>
    </b>The rod of haughtiness is in the mouth of the foolish one, but the very lips of the wise ones will guard them.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter14_verse4"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>4 </sup>
    </b>Where there are no cattle the manger is clean, but the crop is abundant because of the power of a bull.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter14_verse5"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>5 </sup>
    </b>A faithful witness is one that will not lie, but a false witness launches forth mere lies.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter14_verse6"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>6 </sup>
    </b>The ridiculer has sought to find wisdom, and there is none; but to the understanding one knowledge is an easy thing.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter14_verse7"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>7 </sup>
    </b>Go away from in front of the stupid man, for you will certainly not take note of the lips of knowledge.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter14_verse8"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>8 </sup>
    </b>The wisdom of the shrewd is to understand his way, but the foolishness of stupid ones is deception.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter14_verse9"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>9 </sup>
    </b>Foolish are those who make a derision of guilt, but among the upright ones there is agreement.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter14_verse10"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>10 </sup>
    </b>The heart is aware of the bitterness of one’s soul, and with its rejoicing no stranger will intermeddle.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter14_verse11"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>11 </sup>
    </b>The house of wicked people will be annihilated, but the tent of the upright ones will flourish.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter14_verse12"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>12 </sup>
    </b>There exists a way that is upright before a man, but the ways of death are the end of it afterward.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter14_verse13"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>13 </sup>
    </b>Even in laughter the heart may be in pain; and grief is what rejoicing ends up in.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter14_verse14"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>14 </sup>
    </b>The one faithless at heart will be satisfied with the results of his own ways, but the good man with the results of his dealings.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter14_verse15"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>15 </sup>
    </b>Anyone inexperienced puts faith in every word, but the shrewd one considers his steps.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter14_verse16"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>16 </sup>
    </b>The wise one fears and is turning away from badness, but the stupid is becoming furious and self-confident.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter14_verse17"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>17 </sup>
    </b>He that is quick to anger will commit foolishness, but the man of thinking abilities is hated.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter14_verse18"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>18 </sup>
    </b>The inexperienced ones will certainly take possession of foolishness, but the shrewd ones will bear knowledge as a headdress.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter14_verse19"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>19 </sup>
    </b>Bad people will have to bow down before the good ones, and the wicked people at the gates of the righteous one.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter14_verse20"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>20 </sup>
    </b>Even to his fellowman one who is of little means is an object of hatred, but many are the friends of the rich person.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter14_verse21"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>21 </sup>
    </b>The one despising his own fellowman is sinning, but happy is he who is showing favor to the afflicted ones.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter14_verse22"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>22 </sup>
    </b>Will not those devising mischief go wandering about? But there are loving-kindness and trueness as regards those devising good.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="page852"></a>
    <a id="chapter14_verse23"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>23 </sup>
    </b>By every kind of toil there comes to be an advantage, but merely the word of the lips tends to want.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter14_verse24"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>24 </sup>
    </b>The crown of the wise is their riches; the foolishness of the stupid ones is foolishness.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter14_verse25"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>25 </sup>
    </b>A true witness is delivering souls, but a deceitful one launches forth mere lies.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter14_verse26"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>26 </sup>
    </b>In the fear of Jehovah there is strong confidence, and for his sons there will come to be a refuge.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter14_verse27"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>27 </sup>
    </b>The fear of Jehovah is a well of life, to turn away from the snares of death.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter14_verse28"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>28 </sup>
    </b>In the multitude of people there is an adornment of a king, but in the lack of population is the ruin of a high official.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter14_verse29"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>29 </sup>
    </b>He that is slow to anger is abundant in discernment, but one that is impatient is exalting foolishness.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter14_verse30"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>30 </sup>
    </b>A calm heart is the life of the fleshly organism, but jealousy is rottenness to the bones.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter14_verse31"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>31 </sup>
    </b>He that is defrauding the lowly one has reproached his Maker, but the one showing favor to the poor one is glorifying Him.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter14_verse32"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>32 </sup>
    </b>Because of his badness the wicked will be pushed down, but the righteous will be finding refuge in his integrity.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter14_verse33"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>33 </sup>
    </b>In the heart of the understanding one there rests wisdom, and in the midst of stupid ones it becomes known.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter14_verse34"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>34 </sup>
    </b>Righteousness is what exalts a nation, but sin is something disgraceful to national groups.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter14_verse35"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>35 </sup>
    </b>The pleasure of a king is in the servant who is acting with insight, but his fury comes to be toward one acting shamefully.</p>
</book>