<book>
  <p class="w_biblebookname">Proverbs</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter22"></a>
    <a id="chapter22_verse1"></a>
    <span class="w_ch">
      <b>22 </b>
    </span>A name is to be chosen rather than abundant riches; favor is better than even silver and gold.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter22_verse2"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>2 </sup>
    </b>The rich one and the one of little means have met each other. The Maker of them all is Jehovah.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter22_verse3"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>3 </sup>
    </b>Shrewd is the one that has seen the calamity and proceeds to conceal himself, but the inexperienced have passed along and must suffer the penalty.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter22_verse4"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>4 </sup>
    </b>The result of humility and the fear of Jehovah is riches and glory and life.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter22_verse5"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>5 </sup>
    </b>Thorns and traps are in the way of the crooked one; he that is guarding his soul keeps far away from them.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter22_verse6"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>6 </sup>
    </b>Train up a boy according to the way for him; even when he grows old he will not turn aside from it.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter22_verse7"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>7 </sup>
    </b>The rich is the one that rules over those of little means, and the borrower is servant to the man doing the lending.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter22_verse8"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>8 </sup>
    </b>He that is sowing unrighteousness will reap what is hurtful, but the very rod of his fury will come to its end.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter22_verse9"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>9 </sup>
    </b>He that is kindly in eye will <a id="page861"></a>be blessed, for he has given of his food to the lowly one.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter22_verse10"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>10 </sup>
    </b>Drive away the ridiculer, that contention may go out and that legal contest and dishonor may cease.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter22_verse11"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>11 </sup>
    </b>The one loving purity of heart—for the charm of his lips the king will be his companion.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter22_verse12"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>12 </sup>
    </b>The eyes of Jehovah himself have safeguarded knowledge, but he subverts the words of the treacherous one.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter22_verse13"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>13 </sup>
    </b>The lazy one has said: “There is a lion outside! In the midst of the public squares I shall be murdered!”</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter22_verse14"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>14 </sup>
    </b>The mouth of strange women is a deep pit. The one denounced by Jehovah will fall into it.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter22_verse15"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>15 </sup>
    </b>Foolishness is tied up with the heart of a boy; the rod of discipline is what will remove it far from him.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter22_verse16"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>16 </sup>
    </b>He that is defrauding the lowly one to supply many things to himself, he also that is giving to the rich one, is surely destined for want.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter22_verse17"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>17 </sup>
    </b>Incline your ear and hear the words of the wise ones, that you may apply your very heart to my knowledge. <a id="chapter22_verse18"></a><b><sup>18 </sup></b>For it is pleasant that you should keep them in your belly, that they may be firmly established together upon your lips.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter22_verse19"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>19 </sup>
    </b>For your confidence to come to be in Jehovah himself I have given you knowledge today, even you.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter22_verse20"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>20 </sup>
    </b>Have I not written you heretofore with counselings and knowledge, <a id="chapter22_verse21"></a><b><sup>21 </sup></b>to show you the truthfulness of true sayings, so as to return sayings that are the truth—to the one sending you forth?</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter22_verse22"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>22 </sup>
    </b>Do not rob the lowly one because he is lowly, and do not crush the afflicted one in the gate. <a id="chapter22_verse23"></a><b><sup>23 </sup></b>For Jehovah himself will plead their cause, and he will certainly rob of soul those robbing them.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter22_verse24"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>24 </sup>
    </b>Do not have companionship with anyone given to anger; and with a man having fits of rage you must not enter in, <a id="chapter22_verse25"></a><b><sup>25 </sup></b>that you may not get familiar with his paths and certainly take a snare for your soul.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter22_verse26"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>26 </sup>
    </b>Do not get to be among those striking hands, among those who go security for loans. <a id="chapter22_verse27"></a><b><sup>27 </sup></b>If you have nothing to pay, why should he take your bed from under you?</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter22_verse28"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>28 </sup>
    </b>Do not move back a boundary of long ago, which your forefathers have made.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter22_verse29"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>29 </sup>
    </b>Have you beheld a man skillful in his work? Before kings is where he will station himself; he will not station himself before commonplace men.</p>
</book>