<div>
  <p class="w_biblebookname">Proverbs</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter19"></a>
    <a id="chapter19_verse1"></a>
    <span class="w_ch">
      <b>19 </b>
    </span>Anyone of little means who is walking in his integrity is better than the one crooked in his lips, and the one that is stupid.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter19_verse2"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>2 </sup>
    </b>Also, that the soul should be without knowledge is not good, and he that is hastening with his feet is sinning.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter19_verse3"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>3 </sup>
    </b>It is the foolishness of an earthling man that distorts his way, and so his heart becomes enraged against Jehovah himself.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter19_verse4"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>4 </sup>
    </b>Wealth is what adds many companions, but one that is lowly gets separated even from his companion.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter19_verse5"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>5 </sup>
    </b>A false witness will not be free from punishment, and he that launches forth lies will not escape.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter19_verse6"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>6 </sup>
    </b>Many are those who soften the face of a noble, and everybody is a companion to the man making gifts.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter19_verse7"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>7 </sup>
    </b>The brothers of one of little means have all hated him. How much farther have his personal friends kept away from him! He is pursuing with things to say; they are not.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter19_verse8"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>8 </sup>
    </b>He that is acquiring heart is loving his own soul. He that is guarding discernment is going to find good.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter19_verse9"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>9 </sup>
    </b>The false witness will not be free from punishment, and he that launches forth lies will perish.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter19_verse10"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>10 </sup>
    </b>Luxury is not fitting for anyone stupid. How much less for a servant to rule over princes!</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter19_verse11"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>11 </sup>
    </b>The insight of a man certainly slows down his anger, and it is beauty on his part to pass over transgression.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter19_verse12"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>12 </sup>
    </b>The raging of a king is a growling like that of a maned young lion, but his goodwill is like the dew upon the vegetation.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter19_verse13"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>13 </sup>
    </b>A stupid son means adversities to his father, and the contentions of a wife are as a leaking roof that drives one away.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter19_verse14"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>14 </sup>
    </b>The inheritance from fathers is a house and wealth, but a discreet wife is from Jehovah.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter19_verse15"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>15 </sup>
    </b>Laziness causes a deep sleep to fall, and a slack soul goes hungry.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter19_verse16"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>16 </sup>
    </b>He that is keeping the commandment is keeping his soul; he that is despising his ways will be put to death.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter19_verse17"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>17 </sup>
    </b>He that is showing favor to the lowly one is lending to Jehovah, and his treatment He will repay to him.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter19_verse18"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>18 </sup>
    </b>Chastise your son while there exists hope; and to the putting of him to death do not lift up your soulful desire.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter19_verse19"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>19 </sup>
    </b>He that is of great rage will be bearing the fine; for if you would deliver him, you will also keep doing it again and again.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter19_verse20"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>20 </sup>
    </b>Listen to counsel and accept discipline, in order that you may become wise in your future.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter19_verse21"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>21 </sup>
    </b>Many are the plans in the heart of a man, but the counsel of Jehovah is what will stand.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter19_verse22"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>22 </sup>
    </b>The desirable thing in earthling man is his loving-kindness; and one of little <a id="page858"></a>means is better than a lying man.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter19_verse23"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>23 </sup>
    </b>The fear of Jehovah tends toward life, and one will spend the night satisfied; one will not be visited with what is bad.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter19_verse24"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>24 </sup>
    </b>The lazy one has hidden his hand in the banquet bowl; he cannot bring it back even to his own mouth.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter19_verse25"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>25 </sup>
    </b>The ridiculer you should strike, that the inexperienced one may become shrewd; and there should be a reproving of the understanding one, that he may discern knowledge.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter19_verse26"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>26 </sup>
    </b>He that is maltreating a father and that chases a mother away is a son acting shamefully and disgracefully.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter19_verse27"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>27 </sup>
    </b>Cease, my son, to listen to discipline and it will mean to stray from the sayings of knowledge.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter19_verse28"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>28 </sup>
    </b>A good-for-nothing witness derides justice, and the very mouth of wicked people swallows down what is hurtful.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter19_verse29"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>29 </sup>
    </b>Judgments have been firmly established for ridiculers, and strokes for the back of stupid ones.</p>
</div>