<div>
  <p class="w_biblebookname">Proverbs</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter6"></a>
    <a id="chapter6_verse1"></a>
    <span class="w_ch">
      <b>6 </b>
    </span>My son, if you have gone surety for your fellowman, if you have given your handshake even to the stranger, <a id="chapter6_verse2"></a><b><sup>2 </sup></b>if you have been ensnared by the sayings of your mouth, if you have been caught by the sayings of your mouth, <a id="chapter6_verse3"></a><b><sup>3 </sup></b>take this action then, my son, and deliver yourself, for you have come into the palm of your fellowman: Go humble yourself and storm your fellowman with importunities. <a id="chapter6_verse4"></a><b><sup>4 </sup></b>Do not give any sleep to your eyes, nor any slumber to your beaming eyes. <a id="chapter6_verse5"></a><b><sup>5 </sup></b>Deliver yourself like a gazelle from the hand and like a bird from the hand of the birdcatcher.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter6_verse6"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>6 </sup>
    </b>Go to the ant, you lazy one; see its ways and become wise. <a id="chapter6_verse7"></a><b><sup>7 </sup></b>Although it has no commander, officer or ruler, <a id="chapter6_verse8"></a><b><sup>8 </sup></b>it prepares its food even in the summer; it has gathered its food supplies even in the harvest. <a id="chapter6_verse9"></a><b><sup>9 </sup></b>How long, you lazy one, will you keep lying down? When will you rise up from your sleep? <a id="chapter6_verse10"></a><b><sup>10 </sup></b>A little more sleep, a little more slumbering, a little more folding of the hands in lying down, <a id="chapter6_verse11"></a><b><sup>11 </sup></b>and your poverty <a id="page843"></a>will certainly come just like some rover, and your want like an armed man.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter6_verse12"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>12 </sup>
    </b>A good-for-nothing man, a man of hurtfulness, is walking with crookedness of speech, <a id="chapter6_verse13"></a><b><sup>13 </sup></b>winking with his eye, making signs with his foot, making indications with his fingers. <a id="chapter6_verse14"></a><b><sup>14 </sup></b>Perverseness is in his heart. He is fabricating something bad all the time. He keeps sending out merely contentions. <a id="chapter6_verse15"></a><b><sup>15 </sup></b>That is why suddenly there will come his disaster; in an instant he will be broken, and there will be no healing.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter6_verse16"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>16 </sup>
    </b>There are six things that Jehovah does hate; yes, seven are things detestable to his soul: <a id="chapter6_verse17"></a><b><sup>17 </sup></b>lofty eyes, a false tongue, and hands that are shedding innocent blood, <a id="chapter6_verse18"></a><b><sup>18 </sup></b>a heart fabricating hurtful schemes, feet that are in a hurry to run to badness, <a id="chapter6_verse19"></a><b><sup>19 </sup></b>a false witness that launches forth lies, and anyone sending forth contentions among brothers.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter6_verse20"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>20 </sup>
    </b>Observe, O my son, the commandment of your father, and do not forsake the law of your mother. <a id="chapter6_verse21"></a><b><sup>21 </sup></b>Tie them upon your heart constantly; bind them upon your throat. <a id="chapter6_verse22"></a><b><sup>22 </sup></b>When you walk about, it will lead you; when you lie down, it will stand guard over you; and when you have waked up, it itself will make you its concern. <a id="chapter6_verse23"></a><b><sup>23 </sup></b>For the commandment is a lamp, and a light the law is, and the reproofs of discipline are the way of life, <a id="chapter6_verse24"></a><b><sup>24 </sup></b>to guard you against the bad woman, against the smoothness of the tongue of the foreign woman. <a id="chapter6_verse25"></a><b><sup>25 </sup></b>Do not desire her prettiness in your heart, and may she not take you with her lustrous eyes, <a id="chapter6_verse26"></a><b><sup>26 </sup></b>because in behalf of a woman prostitute one comes down to a round loaf of bread; but as regards another man’s wife, she hunts even for a precious soul. <a id="chapter6_verse27"></a><b><sup>27 </sup></b>Can a man rake together fire into his bosom and yet his very garments not be burned? <a id="chapter6_verse28"></a><b><sup>28 </sup></b>Or can a man walk upon the coals and his feet themselves not be scorched? <a id="chapter6_verse29"></a><b><sup>29 </sup></b>Likewise with anyone having relations with the wife of his fellowman, no one touching her will remain unpunishable. <a id="chapter6_verse30"></a><b><sup>30 </sup></b>People do not despise a thief just because he commits thievery to fill his soul when he is hungry. <a id="chapter6_verse31"></a><b><sup>31 </sup></b>But, when found, he will make it good with seven times as much; all the valuables of his house he will give. <a id="chapter6_verse32"></a><b><sup>32 </sup></b>Anyone committing adultery with a woman is in want of heart; he that does it is bringing his own soul to ruin. <a id="chapter6_verse33"></a><b><sup>33 </sup></b>A plague and dishonor he will find, and his reproach itself will not be wiped out. <a id="chapter6_verse34"></a><b><sup>34 </sup></b>For the rage of an able-bodied man is jealousy, and he will not show compassion in the day of vengeance. <a id="chapter6_verse35"></a><b><sup>35 </sup></b>He will have no consideration for any sort of ransom, neither will he show willingness, no matter how large you make the present.</p>
</div>