<book>
  <p class="w_biblebookname">Proverbs</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter17"></a>
    <a id="chapter17_verse1"></a>
    <span class="w_ch">
      <b>17 </b>
    </span>Better is a dry piece of bread with which there is quietness than a house full of the sacrifices of quarreling.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter17_verse2"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>2 </sup>
    </b>A servant that is showing insight will rule over the son who is acting shamefully, and in among the brothers he will have a share of the inheritance.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter17_verse3"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>3 </sup>
    </b>The refining pot is for silver and the furnace for gold, but Jehovah is the examiner of hearts.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter17_verse4"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>4 </sup>
    </b>The evildoer is paying attention to the lip of hurtfulness. A falsifier is giving ear to the tongue causing adversities.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter17_verse5"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>5 </sup>
    </b>He that is holding the one of little means in derision has reproached his Maker. He that is joyful at another’s disaster will not be free from punishment.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter17_verse6"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>6 </sup>
    </b>The crown of old men is the grandsons, and the beauty of sons is their fathers.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter17_verse7"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>7 </sup>
    </b>For anyone senseless the lip of uprightness is not fitting. How much less so for a noble the lip of falsehood!</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter17_verse8"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>8 </sup>
    </b>The gift is a stone winning favor in the eyes of its grand owner. Everywhere that he turns he has success.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter17_verse9"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>9 </sup>
    </b>The one covering over transgression is seeking love, and he that keeps talking about a matter is separating those familiar with one another.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter17_verse10"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>10 </sup>
    </b>A rebuke works deeper in one having understanding than striking a stupid one a hundred times.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter17_verse11"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>11 </sup>
    </b>Only rebellion is what the bad one keeps seeking, and cruel is the messenger that is sent against him.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter17_verse12"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>12 </sup>
    </b>Let there be an encountering by a man of a bear bereaved of its cubs rather than anyone stupid in his foolishness.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter17_verse13"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>13 </sup>
    </b>As for anyone repaying bad for good, bad will not move away from his house.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter17_verse14"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>14 </sup>
    </b>The beginning of contention is as one letting out waters; so before the quarrel has burst forth, take your leave.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter17_verse15"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>15 </sup>
    </b>Anyone pronouncing the wicked one righteous and anyone pronouncing the righteous one wicked—even both of them are something detestable to Jehovah.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter17_verse16"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>16 </sup>
    </b>Why is it that there is in the hand of a stupid one the price to acquire wisdom, when he has no heart?</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter17_verse17"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>17 </sup>
    </b>A true companion is loving all the time, and is a brother that is born for when there is distress.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter17_verse18"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>18 </sup>
    </b>A man that is wanting in heart shakes hands, going full surety before his companion.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter17_verse19"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>19 </sup>
    </b>Anyone loving transgression is loving a struggle. Anyone making his entryway high is seeking a crash.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter17_verse20"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>20 </sup>
    </b>He that is crooked at heart will not find good, and he that is turned around in his tongue will fall into calamity.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter17_verse21"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>21 </sup>
    </b>Anyone becoming father to a stupid child—it is a grief to him; and the father of a senseless child does not rejoice.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter17_verse22"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>22 </sup>
    </b>A heart that is joyful does good as a curer, but a spirit that is stricken makes the bones dry.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter17_verse23"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>23 </sup>
    </b>One who is wicked will take even a bribe from the bosom to bend the paths of judgment.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="page856"></a>
    <a id="chapter17_verse24"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>24 </sup>
    </b>Wisdom is before the face of the understanding one, but the eyes of the stupid one are at the extremity of the earth.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter17_verse25"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>25 </sup>
    </b>A stupid son is a vexation to his father and a bitterness to her that gave him birth.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter17_verse26"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>26 </sup>
    </b>Furthermore, the laying of a fine upon the righteous one is not good. To strike nobles is against what is upright.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter17_verse27"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>27 </sup>
    </b>Anyone holding back his sayings is possessed of knowledge, and a man of discernment is cool of spirit.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter17_verse28"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>28 </sup>
    </b>Even anyone foolish, when keeping silent, will be regarded as wise; anyone closing up his own lips, as having understanding.</p>
</book>