<book>
  <p class="w_biblebookname">Proverbs</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter1"></a>
    <a id="chapter1_verse1"></a>
    <span class="w_ch">
      <b>1 </b>
    </span>The proverbs of Sol′o·mon the son of David, the king of Israel, <a id="chapter1_verse2"></a><b><sup>2 </sup></b>for one to know wisdom and discipline, to discern the sayings of understanding, <a id="chapter1_verse3"></a><b><sup>3 </sup></b>to receive the discipline that gives insight, righteousness and judgment and uprightness, <a id="chapter1_verse4"></a><b><sup>4 </sup></b>to give to the inexperienced ones shrewdness, to a young man knowledge and thinking ability.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter1_verse5"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>5 </sup>
    </b>A wise person will listen and take in more instruction, and a man of understanding is the one who acquires skillful direction, <a id="chapter1_verse6"></a><b><sup>6 </sup></b>to understand a proverb and a puzzling saying, the words of wise persons and their riddles.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter1_verse7"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>7 </sup>
    </b>The fear of Jehovah is the beginning of knowledge. Wisdom and discipline are what mere fools have despised.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter1_verse8"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>8 </sup>
    </b>Listen, my son, to the discipline of your father, and do not forsake the law of your mother. <a id="chapter1_verse9"></a><b><sup>9 </sup></b>For they are a wreath of attractiveness to your head and a fine necklace to your throat.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter1_verse10"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>10 </sup>
    </b>My son, if sinners try to seduce you, do not consent. <a id="chapter1_verse11"></a><b><sup>11 </sup></b>If they keep saying: “Do go with us. Do let us lie in ambush for blood. Do let us lie in concealment for the innocent men without any cause. <a id="chapter1_verse12"></a><b><sup>12 </sup></b>Let us swallow them down alive just like She′ol, even whole, like those going down into a pit. <a id="chapter1_verse13"></a><b><sup>13 </sup></b>Let us find all sorts of precious valuables. Let us fill our houses with spoil. <a id="chapter1_verse14"></a><b><sup>14 </sup></b>Your lot you ought to cast in among us. Let there come to be just one bag belonging to all of us”— <a id="chapter1_verse15"></a><b><sup>15 </sup></b>my son, do not go in the way with them. Hold back your foot from their roadway. <a id="chapter1_verse16"></a><b><sup>16 </sup></b>For their feet are those that run to sheer badness, and they keep hastening to shed blood. <a id="chapter1_verse17"></a><b><sup>17 </sup></b>For it is for nothing that the net is spread before the eyes of anything owning wings. <a id="chapter1_verse18"></a><b><sup>18 </sup></b>Consequently they themselves lie in ambush for the very blood of these; they lie in concealment for their souls. <a id="chapter1_verse19"></a><b><sup>19 </sup></b>Thus are the paths of everyone making unjust profit. It takes away the very soul of its owners.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter1_verse20"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>20 </sup>
    </b>True wisdom itself keeps crying aloud in the very street. In the public squares it keeps giving forth its voice. <a id="chapter1_verse21"></a><b><sup>21 </sup></b>At the upper end of the noisy streets it calls out. At the entrances of the gates into the city it says its own sayings:</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter1_verse22"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>22 </sup>
    </b>“How long will <span class="smcap">YOU </span>inexperienced ones keep loving inexperience, and how long must <span class="smcap">YOU </span>ridiculers desire for yourselves outright ridicule, and how long will <span class="smcap">YOU </span>stupid ones keep hating knowledge? <a id="chapter1_verse23"></a><b><sup>23 </sup></b>Turn back at my reproof. Then to <span class="smcap">YOU </span>I will cause my spirit to bubble forth; I will make my words known to <span class="smcap">YOU</span>. <a id="chapter1_verse24"></a><b><sup>24 </sup></b>Because I have called out but <span class="smcap">YOU </span>keep refusing, I have stretched out my hand but there is no one paying attention, <a id="chapter1_verse25"></a><b><sup>25 </sup></b>and <span class="smcap">YOU </span>keep neglecting all my counsel, and my reproof <span class="smcap">YOU </span>have not accepted, <a id="chapter1_verse26"></a><b><sup>26 </sup></b>I also, for my part, shall laugh at <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>own disaster, I shall mock when what <span class="smcap">YOU </span>dread comes, <a id="chapter1_verse27"></a><b><sup>27 </sup></b>when what <span class="smcap">YOU </span>dread comes just like a storm, and <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>own disaster gets here just like a storm wind, <a id="page839"></a>when distress and hard times come upon <span class="smcap">YOU</span>. <a id="chapter1_verse28"></a><b><sup>28 </sup></b>At that time they will keep calling me, but I shall not answer; they will keep looking for me, but they will not find me, <a id="chapter1_verse29"></a><b><sup>29 </sup></b>for the reason that they hated knowledge, and the fear of Jehovah they did not choose. <a id="chapter1_verse30"></a><b><sup>30 </sup></b>They did not consent to my counsel; they disrespected all my reproof. <a id="chapter1_verse31"></a><b><sup>31 </sup></b>So they will eat from the fruitage of their way, and they will be glutted with their own counsels. <a id="chapter1_verse32"></a><b><sup>32 </sup></b>For the renegading of the inexperienced ones is what will kill them, and the easygoingness of the stupid is what will destroy them. <a id="chapter1_verse33"></a><b><sup>33 </sup></b>As for the one listening to me, he will reside in security and be undisturbed from dread of calamity.”</p>
</book>