<book>
  <p class="w_biblebookname">Proverbs</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter18"></a>
    <a id="chapter18_verse1"></a>
    <span class="w_ch">
      <b>18 </b>
    </span>One isolating himself will seek his own selfish longing; against all practical wisdom he will break forth.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter18_verse2"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>2 </sup>
    </b>Anyone stupid finds no delight in discernment, except that his heart should uncover itself.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter18_verse3"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>3 </sup>
    </b>When a wicked one comes in, contempt also must come in; and along with dishonor there is reproach.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter18_verse4"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>4 </sup>
    </b>The words of a man’s mouth are deep waters. The well of wisdom is a torrent bubbling forth.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter18_verse5"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>5 </sup>
    </b>The showing of partiality to the wicked one is not good, nor the turning aside of the righteous one in judgment.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter18_verse6"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>6 </sup>
    </b>The lips of one who is stupid enter into quarreling, and his very mouth calls even for strokes.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter18_verse7"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>7 </sup>
    </b>The mouth of the stupid one is the ruin of him, and his lips are a snare for his soul.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter18_verse8"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>8 </sup>
    </b>The words of the slanderer are like things to be swallowed greedily, which do go down into the innermost parts of the belly.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter18_verse9"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>9 </sup>
    </b>Also, the one showing himself slack in his work—he is a brother to the one causing ruin.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter18_verse10"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>10 </sup>
    </b>The name of Jehovah is a strong tower. Into it the righteous runs and is given protection.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter18_verse11"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>11 </sup>
    </b>The valuable things of the rich are his strong town, and they are like a protective wall in his imagination.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter18_verse12"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>12 </sup>
    </b>Before a crash the heart of a man is lofty, and before glory there is humility.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter18_verse13"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>13 </sup>
    </b>When anyone is replying to a matter before he hears it, that is foolishness on his part and a humiliation.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter18_verse14"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>14 </sup>
    </b>The spirit of a man can put up with his malady; but as for a stricken spirit, who can bear it?</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter18_verse15"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>15 </sup>
    </b>The heart of the understanding one acquires knowledge, and the ear of wise ones seeks to find knowledge.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter18_verse16"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>16 </sup>
    </b>A man’s gift will make a large opening for him, and it will lead him even before great people.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter18_verse17"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>17 </sup>
    </b>The one first in his legal case is righteous; his fellow comes in and certainly searches him through.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter18_verse18"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>18 </sup>
    </b>The lot puts even contentions to rest, and it separates even the mighty from one another.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter18_verse19"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>19 </sup>
    </b>A brother who is transgressed against is more than a strong town; and there are contentions that are like the bar of a dwelling tower.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter18_verse20"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>20 </sup>
    </b>From the fruitage of a man’s mouth his belly will be satisfied; he will be satisfied even with the produce of his lips.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter18_verse21"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>21 </sup>
    </b>Death and life are in the power of the tongue, and he that is loving it will eat its fruitage.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter18_verse22"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>22 </sup>
    </b>Has one found a good wife? One has found a good <a id="page857"></a>thing, and one gets goodwill from Jehovah.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter18_verse23"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>23 </sup>
    </b>Entreaties the one of little means speaks out, but one that is rich answers in a strong way.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter18_verse24"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>24 </sup>
    </b>There exist companions disposed to break one another to pieces, but there exists a friend sticking closer than a brother.</p>
</book>