<book>
  <p class="w_biblebookname">Proverbs</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter10"></a>
    <a id="chapter10_verse1"></a>
    <span class="w_ch">
      <b>10 </b>
    </span>Proverbs of Sol′o·mon.</p>
  <p class="sb">A wise son is the one that makes a father rejoice, and a stupid son is the grief of his mother. <a id="chapter10_verse2"></a><b><sup>2 </sup></b>The treasures of the wicked one will be of no benefit, but righteousness is what will deliver from death. <a id="chapter10_verse3"></a><b><sup>3 </sup></b>Jehovah will not cause the soul of the righteous one to go hungry, but the craving of the wicked ones he will push away.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter10_verse4"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>4 </sup>
    </b>The one working with a slack hand will be of little means, but the hand of the diligent one is what will make one rich.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter10_verse5"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>5 </sup>
    </b>The son acting with insight is gathering during the summertime; the son acting shamefully is fast asleep during the harvest.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter10_verse6"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>6 </sup>
    </b>Blessings are for the head of the righteous one, but as regards the mouth of the wicked ones, it covers up violence. <a id="chapter10_verse7"></a><b><sup>7 </sup></b>The remembrance of the righteous one is due for a blessing, but the very name of the wicked ones will rot.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter10_verse8"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>8 </sup>
    </b>The one wise in heart will accept commandments, but the one foolish with his lips will be trodden down.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter10_verse9"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>9 </sup>
    </b>He that is walking in integrity will walk in security, but he that is making his ways crooked will make himself known.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter10_verse10"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>10 </sup>
    </b>The one winking his eye will give pain, and the one foolish with his lips will be trodden down. <a id="chapter10_verse11"></a><b><sup>11 </sup></b>The mouth of the righteous one is a source of life; but as regards the mouth of the wicked ones, it covers up violence.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter10_verse12"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>12 </sup>
    </b>Hatred is what stirs up contentions, but love covers over even all transgressions.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter10_verse13"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>13 </sup>
    </b>On the lips of the understanding person wisdom is found, but the rod is for the back of one in want of heart.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter10_verse14"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>14 </sup>
    </b>The wise are the ones that treasure up knowledge, but the mouth of the foolish one is near to ruin itself.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="page847"></a>
    <a id="chapter10_verse15"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>15 </sup>
    </b>The valuable things of a rich man are his strong town. The ruin of the lowly ones is their poverty.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter10_verse16"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>16 </sup>
    </b>The activity of the righteous one results in life; the produce of the wicked one results in sin.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter10_verse17"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>17 </sup>
    </b>He that is holding to discipline is a path to life, but he that is leaving reproof is causing to wander.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter10_verse18"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>18 </sup>
    </b>Where there is one covering over hatred there are lips of falsehood, and the one bringing forth a bad report is stupid.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter10_verse19"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>19 </sup>
    </b>In the abundance of words there does not fail to be transgression, but the one keeping his lips in check is acting discreetly.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter10_verse20"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>20 </sup>
    </b>The tongue of the righteous one is choice silver; the heart of the wicked one is worth little.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter10_verse21"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>21 </sup>
    </b>The very lips of the righteous one keep pasturing many, but for want of heart the foolish themselves keep dying.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter10_verse22"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>22 </sup>
    </b>The blessing of Jehovah—that is what makes rich, and he adds no pain with it.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter10_verse23"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>23 </sup>
    </b>To the stupid one the carrying on of loose conduct is like sport, but wisdom is for the man of discernment.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter10_verse24"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>24 </sup>
    </b>The thing frightful to the wicked one—that is what will come to him; but the desire of the righteous ones will be granted. <a id="chapter10_verse25"></a><b><sup>25 </sup></b>As when the storm wind passes over, so the wicked one is no more; but the righteous one is a foundation to time indefinite.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter10_verse26"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>26 </sup>
    </b>As vinegar to the teeth and as smoke to the eyes, so the lazy man is to those sending him forth.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter10_verse27"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>27 </sup>
    </b>The very fear of Jehovah will add days, but the years themselves of the wicked ones will be cut short.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter10_verse28"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>28 </sup>
    </b>The expectation of the righteous ones is a rejoicing, but the very hope of the wicked ones will perish.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter10_verse29"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>29 </sup>
    </b>The way of Jehovah is a stronghold for the blameless one, but ruin is for the practicers of what is hurtful.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter10_verse30"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>30 </sup>
    </b>As for the righteous one, to time indefinite he will not be caused to stagger; but as for the wicked ones, they will not keep residing on the earth.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter10_verse31"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>31 </sup>
    </b>The mouth of the righteous one—it bears the fruit of wisdom, but the tongue of perverseness will be cut off.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter10_verse32"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>32 </sup>
    </b>The lips of the righteous one—they come to know goodwill, but the mouth of the wicked ones is perverseness.</p>
</book>