<div>
  <p class="w_biblebookname">Proverbs</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter15"></a>
    <a id="chapter15_verse1"></a>
    <span class="w_ch">
      <b>15 </b>
    </span>An answer, when mild, turns away rage, but a word causing pain makes anger to come up.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter15_verse2"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>2 </sup>
    </b>The tongue of wise ones does good with knowledge, but the mouth of the stupid ones bubbles forth with foolishness.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter15_verse3"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>3 </sup>
    </b>The eyes of Jehovah are in every place, keeping watch upon the bad ones and the good ones.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter15_verse4"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>4 </sup>
    </b>The calmness of the tongue is a tree of life, but distortion in it means a breaking down in the spirit.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter15_verse5"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>5 </sup>
    </b>Anyone foolish disrespects the discipline of his father, but anyone regarding reproof is shrewd.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter15_verse6"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>6 </sup>
    </b>In the house of the righteous one there is an abundant store, but in the produce of the wicked one there is a becoming ostracized.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter15_verse7"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>7 </sup>
    </b>The lips of the wise ones keep scattering knowledge about, but the heart of the stupid ones is not like that.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter15_verse8"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>8 </sup>
    </b>The sacrifice of the wicked ones is something detestable to Jehovah, but the prayer of the upright ones is a pleasure to him.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter15_verse9"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>9 </sup>
    </b>The way of the wicked one is something detestable to Jehovah, but the one pursuing righteousness he loves.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter15_verse10"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>10 </sup>
    </b>Discipline is bad to the one leaving the path; anyone hating reproof will die.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter15_verse11"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>11 </sup>
    </b>She′ol and the place of destruction are in front of Jehovah. How much more so the hearts of the sons of mankind!</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter15_verse12"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>12 </sup>
    </b>The ridiculer does not love the one reproving him. To the wise ones he will not go.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter15_verse13"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>13 </sup>
    </b>A joyful heart has a good effect on the countenance, but because of the pain of the heart there is a stricken spirit.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="page853"></a>
    <a id="chapter15_verse14"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>14 </sup>
    </b>The understanding heart is one that searches for knowledge, but the mouth of stupid people is one that aspires to foolishness.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter15_verse15"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>15 </sup>
    </b>All the days of the afflicted one are bad; but the one that is good at heart has a feast constantly.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter15_verse16"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>16 </sup>
    </b>Better is a little in the fear of Jehovah than an abundant supply and confusion along with it.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter15_verse17"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>17 </sup>
    </b>Better is a dish of vegetables where there is love than a manger-fed bull and hatred along with it.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter15_verse18"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>18 </sup>
    </b>An enraged man stirs up contention, but one that is slow to anger quiets down quarreling.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter15_verse19"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>19 </sup>
    </b>The way of the lazy one is like a brier hedge, but the path of the upright ones is a way cast up.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter15_verse20"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>20 </sup>
    </b>A wise son is the one that makes a father rejoice, but a stupid man is despising his mother.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter15_verse21"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>21 </sup>
    </b>Foolishness is a rejoicing to one who is in want of heart, but the man of discernment is one who goes straight ahead.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter15_verse22"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>22 </sup>
    </b>There is a frustrating of plans where there is no confidential talk, but in the multitude of counselors there is accomplishment.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter15_verse23"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>23 </sup>
    </b>A man has rejoicing in the answer of his mouth, and a word at its right time is O how good!</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter15_verse24"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>24 </sup>
    </b>The path of life is upward to one acting with insight, in order to turn away from She′ol down below.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter15_verse25"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>25 </sup>
    </b>The house of the self-exalted ones Jehovah will tear down, but he will fix the boundary of the widow.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter15_verse26"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>26 </sup>
    </b>The schemes of the bad one are something detestable to Jehovah, but pleasant sayings are clean.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter15_verse27"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>27 </sup>
    </b>The one making unjust profit is bringing ostracism upon his own house, but the hater of gifts is the one that will keep living.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter15_verse28"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>28 </sup>
    </b>The heart of the righteous one meditates so as to answer, but the mouth of the wicked ones bubbles forth with bad things.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter15_verse29"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>29 </sup>
    </b>Jehovah is far away from the wicked ones, but the prayer of the righteous ones he hears.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter15_verse30"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>30 </sup>
    </b>The brightness of the eyes makes the heart rejoice; a report that is good makes the bones fat.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter15_verse31"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>31 </sup>
    </b>The ear that is listening to the reproof of life lodges right in among wise people.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter15_verse32"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>32 </sup>
    </b>Anyone shunning discipline is rejecting his own soul, but the one listening to reproof is acquiring heart.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter15_verse33"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>33 </sup>
    </b>The fear of Jehovah is a discipline toward wisdom, and before glory there is humility.</p>
</div>