<div>
  <p class="w_biblebookname">Proverbs</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter27"></a>
    <a id="chapter27_verse1"></a>
    <span class="w_ch">
      <b>27 </b>
    </span>Do not make your boast about the next day, for you do not know what a day will give birth to.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter27_verse2"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>2 </sup>
    </b>May a stranger, and not your own mouth, praise you; may a foreigner, and not your own lips, do so.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter27_verse3"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>3 </sup>
    </b>The heaviness of a stone and a load of sand—but the vexation by someone foolish is heavier than both of them.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter27_verse4"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>4 </sup>
    </b>There is the cruelty of rage, also the flood of anger, but who can stand before jealousy?</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter27_verse5"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>5 </sup>
    </b>Better is a revealed reproof than a concealed love.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter27_verse6"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>6 </sup>
    </b>The wounds inflicted by a lover are faithful, but the kisses of a hater are things to be entreated.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter27_verse7"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>7 </sup>
    </b>A soul that is satisfied will tread down comb honey, but to a hungry soul every bitter thing is sweet.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter27_verse8"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>8 </sup>
    </b>Just like a bird fleeing away from its nest, so is a man fleeing away from his place.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter27_verse9"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>9 </sup>
    </b>Oil and incense are what make the heart rejoice, also the sweetness of one’s companion due to the counsel of the soul.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter27_verse10"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>10 </sup>
    </b>Do not leave your own companion or the companion of your father, and do not enter the house of your own brother on the day of your disaster. Better is a neighbor that is near than a brother that is far away.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter27_verse11"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>11 </sup>
    </b>Be wise, my son, and make my heart rejoice, that I may make a reply to him that is taunting me.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter27_verse12"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>12 </sup>
    </b>The shrewd one that has seen the calamity has concealed himself; the inexperienced that have passed along have suffered the penalty.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter27_verse13"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>13 </sup>
    </b>Take one’s garment, in case one has gone surety for a stranger; and in the instance of a foreign woman, seize from him a pledge.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter27_verse14"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>14 </sup>
    </b>He that is blessing his fellowman with a loud voice early in the morning, as a malediction it will be accounted on his part.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter27_verse15"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>15 </sup>
    </b>A leaking roof that drives one away in the day of a steady rain and a contentious wife are comparable. <a id="chapter27_verse16"></a><b><sup>16 </sup></b>Anyone sheltering her has sheltered the wind, and oil is what his right hand encounters.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter27_verse17"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>17 </sup>
    </b>By iron, iron itself is sharpened. So one man sharpens the face of another.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter27_verse18"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>18 </sup>
    </b>He that is safeguarding the fig tree will himself eat its fruit, and he that is guarding his master will be honored.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter27_verse19"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>19 </sup>
    </b>As in water face corresponds with face, so the heart of a man with that of a man.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter27_verse20"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>20 </sup>
    </b>She′ol and the place of destruction themselves do not get satisfied; neither do the eyes of a man get satisfied.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter27_verse21"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>21 </sup>
    </b>The refining pot is for silver, and the furnace is for gold; and an individual is according to his praise.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter27_verse22"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>22 </sup>
    </b>Even if you should pound the foolish one fine with a pestle in a mortar, in among cracked grain, his foolishness will not depart from him.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="page867"></a>
    <a id="chapter27_verse23"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>23 </sup>
    </b>You ought to know positively the appearance of your flock. Set your heart to your droves; <a id="chapter27_verse24"></a><b><sup>24 </sup></b>for treasure will not be to time indefinite, nor a diadem for all generations.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter27_verse25"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>25 </sup>
    </b>The green grass has departed, and the new grass has appeared, and the vegetation of the mountains has been gathered. <a id="chapter27_verse26"></a><b><sup>26 </sup></b>The young rams are for your clothing, and the he-goats are the price of the field. <a id="chapter27_verse27"></a><b><sup>27 </sup></b>And there is a sufficiency of goats’ milk for your food, for the food of your household, and the means of life for your girls.</p>
</div>