<book>
  <p class="w_biblebookname">Proverbs</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter4"></a>
    <a id="chapter4_verse1"></a>
    <span class="w_ch">
      <b>4 </b>
    </span>Listen, O sons, to the discipline of a father and pay attention, so as to know understanding. <a id="chapter4_verse2"></a><b><sup>2 </sup></b>For good instruction is what I certainly shall give to <span class="smcap">YOU</span>. My law <span class="smcap">DO </span>not leave. <a id="chapter4_verse3"></a><b><sup>3 </sup></b>For I proved to be a real son to my father, tender and the only one before my mother. <a id="chapter4_verse4"></a><b><sup>4 </sup></b>And he would instruct me and say to me: “May your heart keep fast hold of my words. Keep my commandments and continue living. <a id="chapter4_verse5"></a><b><sup>5 </sup></b>Acquire wisdom, acquire understanding. Do not forget, and do not turn aside from the sayings of my mouth. <a id="chapter4_verse6"></a><b><sup>6 </sup></b>Do not leave it, and it will keep you. Love it, and it will safeguard you. <a id="chapter4_verse7"></a><b><sup>7 </sup></b>Wisdom is the prime thing. Acquire wisdom; and with all that you acquire, acquire understanding. <a id="chapter4_verse8"></a><b><sup>8 </sup></b>Highly esteem it, and it will exalt you. It will glorify you because you embrace it. <a id="chapter4_verse9"></a><b><sup>9 </sup></b>To your head it will give a wreath of charm; a crown of beauty it will bestow upon you.”</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter4_verse10"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>10 </sup>
    </b>Hear, my son, and accept my sayings. Then for you the years of life will become many. <a id="chapter4_verse11"></a><b><sup>11 </sup></b>I will instruct you even in the way of wisdom; I will cause you to tread in the tracks of uprightness. <a id="chapter4_verse12"></a><b><sup>12 </sup></b>When you walk, your pace will not be cramped; and if you run, you will not stumble. <a id="chapter4_verse13"></a><b><sup>13 </sup></b>Take hold on discipline; do not let go. Safeguard it, for it itself is your life.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter4_verse14"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>14 </sup>
    </b>Into the path of the wicked ones do not enter, and do not walk straight on into the way of the bad ones. <a id="chapter4_verse15"></a><b><sup>15 </sup></b>Shun it, do not pass along by it; turn aside from it, and pass along. <a id="chapter4_verse16"></a><b><sup>16 </sup></b>For they do not sleep unless they do badness, and their sleep has been snatched away unless they cause someone to stumble. <a id="chapter4_verse17"></a><b><sup>17 </sup></b>For they have fed themselves with the bread of wickedness, and the wine of acts of violence is what they drink. <a id="chapter4_verse18"></a><b><sup>18 </sup></b>But the path of the righteous ones is like the bright light that is getting lighter and lighter until the day is firmly established. <a id="chapter4_verse19"></a><b><sup>19 </sup></b>The way of the wicked ones is like the gloom; they have not known at what they keep stumbling.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter4_verse20"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>20 </sup>
    </b>My son, to my words do pay attention. To my sayings incline your ear. <a id="chapter4_verse21"></a><b><sup>21 </sup></b>May they not get away from your eyes. Keep them in the midst of your heart. <a id="chapter4_verse22"></a><b><sup>22 </sup></b>For they are life to those finding them and health to all their flesh. <a id="chapter4_verse23"></a><b><sup>23 </sup></b>More than all else that is to be guarded, safeguard your heart, for out of it are the sources of life. <a id="chapter4_verse24"></a><b><sup>24 </sup></b>Remove from yourself the crookedness of speech; and the deviousness of lips put far away from yourself. <a id="chapter4_verse25"></a><b><sup>25 </sup></b>As for your eyes, straight ahead they should look, yes, your own beaming eyes should gaze straight in front of you. <a id="chapter4_verse26"></a><b><sup>26 </sup></b>Smooth out the course of your foot, and may all your own ways be firmly established. <a id="chapter4_verse27"></a><b><sup>27 </sup></b>Do not incline to the right hand or to the left. Remove your foot from what is bad.</p>
</book>