<book>
  <p class="w_biblebookname">Proverbs</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter20"></a>
    <a id="chapter20_verse1"></a>
    <span class="w_ch">
      <b>20 </b>
    </span>Wine is a ridiculer, intoxicating liquor is boisterous, and everyone going astray by it is not wise.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter20_verse2"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>2 </sup>
    </b>The frightfulness of a king is a growling like that of a maned young lion. Anyone drawing his fury against himself is sinning against his own soul.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter20_verse3"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>3 </sup>
    </b>It is a glory for a man to desist from disputing, but everyone foolish will burst out in it.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter20_verse4"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>4 </sup>
    </b>Because of winter the lazy one will not plow; he will be begging in reaping time, but there will be nothing.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter20_verse5"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>5 </sup>
    </b>Counsel in the heart of a man is as deep waters, but the man of discernment is one that will draw it up.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter20_verse6"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>6 </sup>
    </b>A multitude of men will proclaim each one his own loving-kindness, but a faithful man who can find?</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter20_verse7"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>7 </sup>
    </b>The righteous is walking in his integrity. Happy are his sons after him.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter20_verse8"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>8 </sup>
    </b>The king is sitting upon the throne of judgment, scattering all badness with his own eyes.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter20_verse9"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>9 </sup>
    </b>Who can say: “I have cleansed my heart; I have become pure from my sin”?</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter20_verse10"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>10 </sup>
    </b>Two sorts of weights and two sorts of e′phah measures—they are both of them together something detestable to Jehovah.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter20_verse11"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>11 </sup>
    </b>Even by his practices a boy makes himself recognized as to whether his activity is pure and upright.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter20_verse12"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>12 </sup>
    </b>The hearing ear and the seeing eye—Jehovah himself has made even both of them.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter20_verse13"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>13 </sup>
    </b>Do not love sleep, that you may not come to poverty. Open your eyes; be satisfied with bread.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter20_verse14"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>14 </sup>
    </b>“It is bad, bad!” says the buyer, and he is going his way. Then it is that he boasts about himself.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter20_verse15"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>15 </sup>
    </b>There exists gold, also an abundance of corals; but the lips of knowledge are precious vessels.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter20_verse16"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>16 </sup>
    </b>Take one’s garment, in case one has gone surety for a stranger; and in the instance of a foreign woman, seize from him a pledge.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter20_verse17"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>17 </sup>
    </b>Bread gained by falsehood is pleasurable to a man, but afterward his mouth will be filled with gravel.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter20_verse18"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>18 </sup>
    </b>By counsel plans themselves <a id="page859"></a>are firmly established, and by skillful direction carry on your war.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter20_verse19"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>19 </sup>
    </b>He that is going about as a slanderer is uncovering confidential talk; and with one that is enticed with his lips you must have no fellowship.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter20_verse20"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>20 </sup>
    </b>As for anyone calling down evil upon his father and his mother, his lamp will be extinguished at the approach of darkness.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter20_verse21"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>21 </sup>
    </b>An inheritance is being got by greed at first, but its own future will not be blessed.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter20_verse22"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>22 </sup>
    </b>Do not say: “I will pay back evil!” Hope in Jehovah, and he will save you.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter20_verse23"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>23 </sup>
    </b>Two sorts of weights are something detestable to Jehovah, and a cheating pair of scales is not good.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter20_verse24"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>24 </sup>
    </b>From Jehovah are the steppings of an able-bodied man. As regards earthling man, how can he discern his way?</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter20_verse25"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>25 </sup>
    </b>It is a snare when earthling man has rashly cried out, “Holy!” and after vows he is disposed to make examination.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter20_verse26"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>26 </sup>
    </b>A wise king is scattering wicked people, and he turns around upon them a wheel.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter20_verse27"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>27 </sup>
    </b>The breath of earthling man is the lamp of Jehovah, carefully searching all the innermost parts of the belly.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter20_verse28"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>28 </sup>
    </b>Loving-kindness and trueness—they safeguard the king; and by loving-kindness he has sustained his throne.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter20_verse29"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>29 </sup>
    </b>The beauty of young men is their power, and the splendor of old men is their gray-headedness.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter20_verse30"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>30 </sup>
    </b>Bruising wounds are what scours away the bad; and strokes, the innermost parts of the belly.</p>
</book>