<book>
  <p class="w_biblebookname">Proverbs</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter26"></a>
    <a id="chapter26_verse1"></a>
    <span class="w_ch">
      <b>26 </b>
    </span>Like snow in summer and like rain in harvesttime, so glory is not fitting for a stupid one.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter26_verse2"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>2 </sup>
    </b>Just as a bird has cause for fleeing and just as a swallow for flying, so a malediction itself does not come without real cause.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter26_verse3"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>3 </sup>
    </b>A whip is for the horse, a bridle is for the ass, and the rod is for the back of stupid people.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter26_verse4"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>4 </sup>
    </b>Do not answer anyone stupid according to his foolishness, that you yourself also may not become equal to him.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter26_verse5"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>5 </sup>
    </b>Answer someone stupid according to his foolishness, that he may not become someone wise in his own eyes.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter26_verse6"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>6 </sup>
    </b>As one that is mutilating his feet, as one that is drinking mere violence, is he that is thrusting matters into the hand of someone stupid.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter26_verse7"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>7 </sup>
    </b>Have the legs of the lame one drawn up water? Then there is a proverb in the mouth of stupid people.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter26_verse8"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>8 </sup>
    </b>Like one shutting up a stone in a heap of stones, so is the one giving glory to a mere stupid one.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter26_verse9"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>9 </sup>
    </b>As a thorny weed has come up into the hand of a drunkard, so a proverb into the mouth of stupid people.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter26_verse10"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>10 </sup>
    </b>As an archer piercing everything is the one hiring someone stupid or the one hiring passersby.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter26_verse11"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>11 </sup>
    </b>Just like a dog returning to its vomit, the stupid one is repeating his foolishness.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter26_verse12"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>12 </sup>
    </b>Have you seen a man wise in his own eyes? There is more hope for the stupid one than for him.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter26_verse13"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>13 </sup>
    </b>The lazy one has said: “There is a young lion in the way, a lion in among the public squares.”</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter26_verse14"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>14 </sup>
    </b>A door keeps turning upon its pivot, and the lazy one upon his couch.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter26_verse15"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>15 </sup>
    </b>The lazy one has hidden his hand in the banquet bowl; he has become too weary to bring it back to his mouth.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter26_verse16"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>16 </sup>
    </b>The lazy one is wiser in his own eyes than seven giving a sensible reply.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter26_verse17"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>17 </sup>
    </b>As one grabbing hold of the ears of a dog is anyone passing by that is becoming furious at the quarrel that is not his.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter26_verse18"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>18 </sup>
    </b>Just like someone mad that is shooting fiery missiles, arrows and death, <a id="chapter26_verse19"></a><b><sup>19 </sup></b>so is the man that has tricked his fellowman and has said: “Was I not having fun?”</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter26_verse20"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>20 </sup>
    </b>Where there is no wood the fire goes out, and where there is no slanderer contention grows still.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter26_verse21"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>21 </sup>
    </b>As charcoal for the embers and wood for the fire, so is a contentious man for causing a quarrel to glow.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter26_verse22"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>22 </sup>
    </b>The words of a slanderer are like things to be swallowed greedily, which do go down into the innermost parts of the belly.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter26_verse23"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>23 </sup>
    </b>As a silver glazing overlaid upon a fragment of earthenware are fervent lips along with a bad heart.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter26_verse24"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>24 </sup>
    </b>With his lips the hater makes himself unrecognizable, but inside of him he <a id="page866"></a>puts deception. <a id="chapter26_verse25"></a><b><sup>25 </sup></b>Although he makes his voice gracious, do not believe in him, for there are seven detestable things in his heart. <a id="chapter26_verse26"></a><b><sup>26 </sup></b>Hatred is covered over by deceit. His badness will be uncovered in the congregation.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter26_verse27"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>27 </sup>
    </b>He that is excavating a pit will fall into the same, and he that is rolling away a stone—back to him it will return.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter26_verse28"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>28 </sup>
    </b>A tongue that is false hates the one crushed by it, and a flattering mouth causes an overthrow.</p>
</book>