<book>
  <p class="w_biblebookname">Proverbs</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter16"></a>
    <a id="chapter16_verse1"></a>
    <span class="w_ch">
      <b>16 </b>
    </span>To earthling man belong the arrangings of the heart, but from Jehovah is the answer of the tongue.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter16_verse2"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>2 </sup>
    </b>All the ways of a man are pure in his own eyes, but Jehovah is making an estimate of spirits.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter16_verse3"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>3 </sup>
    </b>Roll your works upon Jehovah himself and your plans will be firmly established.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter16_verse4"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>4 </sup>
    </b>Everything Jehovah has made for his purpose, yes, even the wicked one for the evil day.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter16_verse5"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>5 </sup>
    </b>Everyone that is proud in heart is something detestable to Jehovah. Hand may join to hand, yet one will not be free from punishment.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="page854"></a>
    <a id="chapter16_verse6"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>6 </sup>
    </b>By loving-kindness and trueness error is atoned for, and in the fear of Jehovah one turns away from bad.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter16_verse7"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>7 </sup>
    </b>When Jehovah takes pleasure in the ways of a man he causes even his enemies themselves to be at peace with him.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter16_verse8"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>8 </sup>
    </b>Better is a little with righteousness than an abundance of products without justice.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter16_verse9"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>9 </sup>
    </b>The heart of earthling man may think out his way, but Jehovah himself does the directing of his steps.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter16_verse10"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>10 </sup>
    </b>Inspired decision should be upon the lips of a king; in judgment his mouth should not prove unfaithful.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter16_verse11"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>11 </sup>
    </b>The just indicator and scales belong to Jehovah; all the stone weights of the bag are his work.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter16_verse12"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>12 </sup>
    </b>The doing of wickedness is something detestable to kings, for by righteousness is the throne firmly established.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter16_verse13"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>13 </sup>
    </b>The lips of righteousness are a pleasure to a grand king; and the speaker of upright things he loves.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter16_verse14"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>14 </sup>
    </b>The rage of a king means messengers of death, but the wise man is one that averts it.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter16_verse15"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>15 </sup>
    </b>In the light of the king’s face there is life, and his goodwill is like the cloud of spring rain.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter16_verse16"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>16 </sup>
    </b>The getting of wisdom is O how much better than gold! And the getting of understanding is to be chosen more than silver.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter16_verse17"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>17 </sup>
    </b>The highway of the upright ones is to turn away from bad. One who is safeguarding his way is keeping his soul.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter16_verse18"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>18 </sup>
    </b>Pride is before a crash, and a haughty spirit before stumbling.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter16_verse19"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>19 </sup>
    </b>Better is it to be lowly in spirit with the meek ones than to divide spoil with the self-exalted ones.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter16_verse20"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>20 </sup>
    </b>He that is showing insight in a matter will find good, and happy is he that is trusting in Jehovah.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter16_verse21"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>21 </sup>
    </b>The one that is wise in heart will be called understanding, and he that is sweet in his lips adds persuasiveness.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter16_verse22"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>22 </sup>
    </b>To its owners insight is a well of life; and the discipline of the foolish ones is foolishness.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter16_verse23"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>23 </sup>
    </b>The heart of the wise one causes his mouth to show insight, and to his lips it adds persuasiveness.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter16_verse24"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>24 </sup>
    </b>Pleasant sayings are a honeycomb, sweet to the soul and a healing to the bones.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter16_verse25"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>25 </sup>
    </b>There exists a way that is upright before a man, but the ways of death are the end of it afterward.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter16_verse26"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>26 </sup>
    </b>The soul of the hard worker has worked hard for him, because his mouth has pressed him hard.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter16_verse27"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>27 </sup>
    </b>A good-for-nothing man is digging up what is bad, and upon his lips there is, as it were, a scorching fire.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter16_verse28"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>28 </sup>
    </b>A man of intrigues keeps sending forth contention, and a slanderer is separating those familiar with one another.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter16_verse29"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>29 </sup>
    </b>A man of violence will seduce his fellow, and certainly causes him to go in a way that is not good. <a id="chapter16_verse30"></a><b><sup>30 </sup></b>He is blinking with his eyes to scheme up intrigues. Pinching his lips together, he certainly brings mischief to completion.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter16_verse31"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>31 </sup>
    </b>Gray-headedness is a crown of beauty when it is found in the way of righteousness.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="page855"></a>
    <a id="chapter16_verse32"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>32 </sup>
    </b>He that is slow to anger is better than a mighty man, and he that is controlling his spirit than the one capturing a city.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter16_verse33"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>33 </sup>
    </b>Into the lap the lot is cast down, but every decision by it is from Jehovah.</p>
</book>