<div>
  <p class="w_biblebookname">Proverbs</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter29"></a>
    <a id="chapter29_verse1"></a>
    <span class="w_ch">
      <b>29 </b>
    </span>A man repeatedly reproved but making his neck hard will suddenly be broken, and that without healing.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter29_verse2"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>2 </sup>
    </b>When the righteous become many, the people rejoice; but when anyone wicked bears rule, the people sigh.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter29_verse3"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>3 </sup>
    </b>A man that is loving wisdom makes his father rejoice, but he that is having companionship with prostitutes destroys valuable things.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter29_verse4"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>4 </sup>
    </b>By justice a king makes a land keep standing, but a man out for bribes tears it down.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter29_verse5"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>5 </sup>
    </b>An able-bodied man that is flattering his companion is spreading out a mere net for his steps.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter29_verse6"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>6 </sup>
    </b>In the transgression of a bad man there is a snare, but he that is righteous cries out joyfully and is glad.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter29_verse7"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>7 </sup>
    </b>The righteous one is knowing the legal claim of the lowly ones. He that is wicked does not consider such knowledge.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter29_verse8"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>8 </sup>
    </b>Men of boastful talk inflame a town, but those who are wise turn back anger.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter29_verse9"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>9 </sup>
    </b>A wise man having entered into judgment with a foolish man—he has become excited and has also laughed, and there is no rest.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter29_verse10"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>10 </sup>
    </b>Bloodthirsty men hate anyone blameless; and as for the upright ones, they keep seeking for the soul of each one.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter29_verse11"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>11 </sup>
    </b>All his spirit is what a stupid one lets out, but he that is wise keeps it calm to the last.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter29_verse12"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>12 </sup>
    </b>Where a ruler is paying attention to false speech, all those waiting on him will be wicked.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter29_verse13"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>13 </sup>
    </b>The one of little means and the man of oppressions have met each other; but Jehovah is lighting up the eyes of them both.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter29_verse14"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>14 </sup>
    </b>Where a king is judging the lowly ones in trueness, his throne will be firmly established for all time.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter29_verse15"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>15 </sup>
    </b>The rod and reproof are what give wisdom; but a boy let on the loose will be causing his mother shame.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter29_verse16"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>16 </sup>
    </b>When the wicked become many, transgression abounds; but those who are righteous will look on their very downfall.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter29_verse17"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>17 </sup>
    </b>Chastise your son and he <a id="page869"></a>will bring you rest and give much pleasure to your soul.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter29_verse18"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>18 </sup>
    </b>Where there is no vision the people go unrestrained, but happy are they that are keeping the law.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter29_verse19"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>19 </sup>
    </b>A servant will not let himself be corrected by mere words, for he understands but he is paying no heed.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter29_verse20"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>20 </sup>
    </b>Have you beheld a man hasty with his words? There is more hope for someone stupid than for him.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter29_verse21"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>21 </sup>
    </b>If one is pampering one’s servant from youth on, in his later life he will even become a thankless one.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter29_verse22"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>22 </sup>
    </b>A man given to anger stirs up contention, and anyone disposed to rage has many a transgression.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter29_verse23"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>23 </sup>
    </b>The very haughtiness of earthling man will humble him, but he that is humble in spirit will take hold of glory.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter29_verse24"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>24 </sup>
    </b>He that is partner with a thief is hating his own soul. An oath involving a curse he may hear, but he reports nothing.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter29_verse25"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>25 </sup>
    </b>Trembling at men is what lays a snare, but he that is trusting in Jehovah will be protected.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter29_verse26"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>26 </sup>
    </b>Many are those seeking the face of a ruler, but the judgment of a man is from Jehovah.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter29_verse27"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>27 </sup>
    </b>A man of injustice is something detestable to the righteous ones, and one who is upright in his way is something detestable to a wicked one.</p>
</div>