<book>
  <p class="w_biblebookname">Proverbs</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter12"></a>
    <a id="chapter12_verse1"></a>
    <span class="w_ch">
      <b>12 </b>
    </span>A lover of discipline is a lover of knowledge, but a hater of reproof is unreasoning.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter12_verse2"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>2 </sup>
    </b>One that is good gets approval from Jehovah, but the man of wicked ideas he pronounces wicked.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter12_verse3"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>3 </sup>
    </b>No man will be firmly established by wickedness; but as for the root-foundation of the righteous ones, it will not be caused to stagger.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter12_verse4"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>4 </sup>
    </b>A capable wife is a crown to her owner, but as rottenness in his bones is she that acts shamefully.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter12_verse5"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>5 </sup>
    </b>The thoughts of the righteous ones are judgment; the steering by the wicked ones is deception.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter12_verse6"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>6 </sup>
    </b>The words of the wicked ones are a lying in wait for blood, but the mouth of the upright ones is what will deliver them.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter12_verse7"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>7 </sup>
    </b>There is an overthrowing of the wicked ones and they are no more, but the very house of the righteous ones will keep standing.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter12_verse8"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>8 </sup>
    </b>For his mouth of discretion a man will be praised, but one who is twisted at heart will come to be for contempt.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter12_verse9"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>9 </sup>
    </b>Better is the one lightly esteemed but having a servant than the one glorifying himself but in want of bread.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter12_verse10"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>10 </sup>
    </b>The righteous one is caring for the soul of his domestic animal, but the mercies of the wicked ones are cruel.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter12_verse11"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>11 </sup>
    </b>The one cultivating his ground will himself be satisfied with bread, but the one pursuing valueless things is in want of heart.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter12_verse12"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>12 </sup>
    </b>The wicked one has desired the netted prey of bad men; but as for the root of the righteous ones, it yields.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter12_verse13"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>13 </sup>
    </b>By the transgression of the lips the bad person is ensnared, but the righteous one gets out of distress.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter12_verse14"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>14 </sup>
    </b>From the fruitage of a man’s mouth he is satisfied with good, and the very doing of a man’s hands will come back to him.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter12_verse15"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>15 </sup>
    </b>The way of the foolish one is right in his own eyes, but the one listening to counsel is wise.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter12_verse16"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>16 </sup>
    </b>It is a foolish person that makes known his vexation in the same day, but the shrewd one is covering over a dishonor.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter12_verse17"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>17 </sup>
    </b>He that launches forth faithfulness will tell what is righteous, but a false witness, deception.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter12_verse18"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>18 </sup>
    </b>There exists the one speaking thoughtlessly as with the stabs of a sword, but the tongue of the wise ones is a healing.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter12_verse19"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>19 </sup>
    </b>It is the lip of truth that will be firmly established forever, but the tongue of falsehood will be only as long as a moment.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter12_verse20"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>20 </sup>
    </b>Deception is in the heart of those fabricating mischief, but those counseling peace have rejoicing.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter12_verse21"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>21 </sup>
    </b>Nothing hurtful will befall the righteous one, but the wicked are the ones that will certainly be filled with calamity.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter12_verse22"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>22 </sup>
    </b>False lips are something detestable to Jehovah, but those acting in faithfulness are a pleasure to him.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter12_verse23"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>23 </sup>
    </b>A shrewd man is covering knowledge, but the heart of the stupid ones is one that calls out foolishness.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter12_verse24"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>24 </sup>
    </b>The hand of the diligent ones is the one that will rule, but the slack hand will come to be for forced labor.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="page850"></a>
    <a id="chapter12_verse25"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>25 </sup>
    </b>Anxious care in the heart of a man is what will cause it to bow down, but the good word is what makes it rejoice.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter12_verse26"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>26 </sup>
    </b>The righteous one spies out his own pasturage, but the very way of wicked ones causes them to wander about.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter12_verse27"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>27 </sup>
    </b>Slackness will not start up one’s game animals, but the diligent one is a man’s precious wealth.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter12_verse28"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>28 </sup>
    </b>In the path of righteousness there is life, and the journey in its pathway means no death.</p>
</book>