<book>
  <p class="w_biblebookname">Ecclesiastes</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter3"></a>
    <a id="chapter3_verse1"></a>
    <span class="w_ch">
      <b>3 </b>
    </span>For everything there is an appointed time, even a time for every affair under the heavens: <a id="chapter3_verse2"></a><b><sup>2 </sup></b>a time for birth and a time to die; a time to plant and a time to uproot what was planted; <a id="chapter3_verse3"></a><b><sup>3 </sup></b>a time to kill and a time to heal; a time to break down and a time to build; <a id="chapter3_verse4"></a><b><sup>4 </sup></b>a time to weep and a time to laugh; a time to wail and a time to skip about; <a id="chapter3_verse5"></a><b><sup>5 </sup></b>a time to throw stones away and a time to bring stones together; a time to embrace and a time to keep away from embracing; <a id="chapter3_verse6"></a><b><sup>6 </sup></b>a time to seek and a time to give up as lost; a time to keep and a time to throw away; <a id="chapter3_verse7"></a><b><sup>7 </sup></b>a time to rip apart and a time to sew together; a time to keep quiet and a time to speak; <a id="chapter3_verse8"></a><b><sup>8 </sup></b>a time to love and a time to hate; a time for war and a time for peace. <a id="chapter3_verse9"></a><b><sup>9 </sup></b>What advantage is there for the doer in what he is working hard at?</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter3_verse10"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>10 </sup>
    </b>I have seen the occupation that God has given to the sons of mankind in which to be occupied. <a id="chapter3_verse11"></a><b><sup>11 </sup></b>Everything he has made pretty in its time. Even time indefinite he has put in their heart, that mankind may never find out the work that the true God has made from the start to the finish. <a id="chapter3_verse12"></a><b><sup>12 </sup></b>I have come to know that there is nothing better for them than to rejoice and to do good during one’s life; <a id="chapter3_verse13"></a><b><sup>13 </sup></b>and also that every man should eat and indeed drink and see good for all his hard work. It is the gift of God.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter3_verse14"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>14 </sup>
    </b>I have come to know that everything that the true God makes, it will prove to be to time indefinite. To it there is nothing to add and from it there is nothing to subtract; but the true God himself has made it, that people may be afraid on account of him.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter3_verse15"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>15 </sup>
    </b>What has happened to be, it had already been, and what is to come to be has already proved to be; and the true God himself keeps seeking that which is pursued.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter3_verse16"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>16 </sup>
    </b>And I have further seen under the sun the place of justice where there was wickedness and the place of righteousness where wickedness was. <a id="chapter3_verse17"></a><b><sup>17 </sup></b>I myself have said in my heart: “The true God will judge both the righteous one and the wicked one, for there is a time for every affair and concerning every work there.”</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="page875"></a>
    <a id="chapter3_verse18"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>18 </sup>
    </b>I, even I, have said in my heart with regard to the sons of mankind that the true God is going to select them, that they may see that they themselves are beasts. <a id="chapter3_verse19"></a><b><sup>19 </sup></b>For there is an eventuality as respects the sons of mankind and an eventuality as respects the beast, and they have the same eventuality. As the one dies, so the other dies; and they all have but one spirit, so that there is no superiority of the man over the beast, for everything is vanity. <a id="chapter3_verse20"></a><b><sup>20 </sup></b>All are going to one place. They have all come to be from the dust, and they are all returning to the dust. <a id="chapter3_verse21"></a><b><sup>21 </sup></b>Who is there knowing the spirit of the sons of mankind, whether it is ascending upward; and the spirit of the beast, whether it is descending downward to the earth? <a id="chapter3_verse22"></a><b><sup>22 </sup></b>And I have seen that there is nothing better than that the man should rejoice in his works, for that is his portion; because who will bring him in to look on what is going to be after him?</p>
</book>