<div>
  <p class="w_biblebookname">Isaiah</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter17"></a>
    <a id="chapter17_verse1"></a>
    <span class="w_ch">
      <b>17 </b>
    </span>The pronouncement against Damascus: “Look! Damascus removed from being a city, and she has become a heap, a decaying ruin. <a id="chapter17_verse2"></a><b><sup>2 </sup></b>The cities of A·ro′er that have been left behind become mere places for droves, where they actually lie down, with no one to make them tremble. <a id="chapter17_verse3"></a><b><sup>3 </sup></b>And the fortified city has been made to cease out of E′phra·im, and the kingdom out of Damascus; and those of Syria remaining over will become just like the glory of the sons of Israel,” is the utterance of Jehovah of armies.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter17_verse4"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>4 </sup>
    </b>“And it must occur in that day that the glory of Jacob will become lowly, and even the fatness of his flesh will be made lean. <a id="chapter17_verse5"></a><b><sup>5 </sup></b>And it must occur that when the harvester is gathering the standing grain and his own arm harvests the ears of grain, he must even become like one gleaning ears of grain in the low plain of Reph′a·im. <a id="chapter17_verse6"></a><b><sup>6 </sup></b>And there must remain in it a gleaning as when there is a beating off of the olive tree: two or three ripe olives in the top of the branch; four or five on the fruit-bearing boughs thereof,” is the utterance of Jehovah the God of Israel.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter17_verse7"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>7 </sup>
    </b>In that day earthling man will look up to his Maker, and his own eyes will gaze at the Holy One of Israel himself. <a id="chapter17_verse8"></a><b><sup>8 </sup></b>And he will not look to the altars, the work of his hands; and at what his fingers have made he will not gaze, either at the sacred poles or at the incense stands. <a id="chapter17_verse9"></a><b><sup>9 </sup></b>In that day his fortress cities will become like a place left entirely in the woodland, even the branch that they have left entirely on account of the sons of Israel; and it must become a desolate waste. <a id="chapter17_verse10"></a><b><sup>10 </sup></b>For you have forgotten the God of your salvation; and the Rock of your fortress you have not remembered. That is why you plant pleasant plantations, and with the shoot of a stranger you set it. <a id="chapter17_verse11"></a><b><sup>11 </sup></b>In the day you may carefully fence about the plantation of yours, and in the morning you may cause the seed of yours to sprout, but the harvest will certainly flee in the day of the disease and incurable pain.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter17_verse12"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>12 </sup>
    </b>Ha for the commotion of many peoples, who are boisterous as with the boisterousness of the seas! And for the noise of national groups, who make a din just like the noise of mighty waters! <a id="chapter17_verse13"></a><b><sup>13 </sup></b>The national groups themselves will make a din just like the noise of many waters. And He will certainly rebuke it, and it must flee far away and be chased like the chaff of the mountains before a wind and like a thistle whirl before a storm wind. <a id="chapter17_verse14"></a><b><sup>14 </sup></b>At evening time, <a id="page907"></a>why, look! there is sudden terror. Before morning—it is no more. This is the share of those pillaging us, and the lot belonging to those plundering us.</p>
</div>