<div>
  <p class="w_biblebookname">Isaiah</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter54"></a>
    <a id="chapter54_verse1"></a>
    <span class="w_ch">
      <b>54 </b>
    </span>“Cry out joyfully, you barren woman that did not give birth! Become cheerful with a joyful outcry and cry shrilly, you that had no childbirth pains, for the sons of the desolated one are more numerous than the sons of the woman with a husbandly owner,” Jehovah has said. <a id="chapter54_verse2"></a><b><sup>2 </sup></b>“Make the place of your tent more spacious. And let them stretch out the tent cloths of your grand tabernacle. Do not hold back. Lengthen out your tent cords, and make those tent pins of yours strong. <a id="chapter54_verse3"></a><b><sup>3 </sup></b>For to the right and to the left you will break forth, and your own offspring will take possession even of nations, and they will inhabit even the desolated cities. <a id="chapter54_verse4"></a><b><sup>4 </sup></b>Do not be afraid, for you will not be put to shame; and do not feel humiliated, for you will not be disappointed. For you will forget even the shame of your time of youth, and the reproach of your continuous widowhood you will remember no more.”</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter54_verse5"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>5 </sup>
    </b>“For your Grand Maker is your husbandly owner, Jehovah of armies being his name; and the Holy One of Israel is your Repurchaser. The God of the whole earth he will be called. <a id="chapter54_verse6"></a><b><sup>6 </sup></b>For Jehovah called you as if you were a wife left entirely and hurt in spirit, and as a wife of the time of youth who was then rejected,” your God has said.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter54_verse7"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>7 </sup>
    </b>“For a little moment I left you entirely, but with great mercies I shall collect you together. <a id="chapter54_verse8"></a><b><sup>8 </sup></b>With a flood of indignation I concealed my face from you for but a moment, but with loving-kindness to time indefinite I will have mercy upon you,” your Repurchaser, Jehovah, has said.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter54_verse9"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>9 </sup>
    </b>“This is just as the days of Noah to me. Just as I have sworn that the waters of Noah shall no more pass over the earth, so I have sworn that I will not become indignant toward you nor rebuke you. <a id="chapter54_verse10"></a><b><sup>10 </sup></b>For the mountains themselves may be removed, and the very hills may stagger, but my loving-kindness itself will not be removed from you, nor will my covenant of peace itself stagger,” Jehovah, the One having mercy upon you, has said.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter54_verse11"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>11 </sup>
    </b>“O woman afflicted, tempest-tossed, uncomforted, here I am laying with hard mortar your stones, and I will lay your foundation with sapphires. <a id="chapter54_verse12"></a><b><sup>12 </sup></b>And I will make your battlements of rubies, and your gates of fiery glowing stones, and all your boundaries of delightsome stones. <a id="chapter54_verse13"></a><b><sup>13 </sup></b>And all your sons will be persons taught by Jehovah, and the peace of your sons will be abundant. <a id="chapter54_verse14"></a><b><sup>14 </sup></b>You will prove to be firmly established in righteousness itself. You will be far away from oppression—for you will fear none—and from anything terrifying, for it will not come near you. <a id="chapter54_verse15"></a><b><sup>15 </sup></b>If anyone should at all make an attack, it will <a id="page950"></a>not be at my orders. Whoever is making an attack upon you will fall even on account of you.”</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter54_verse16"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>16 </sup>
    </b>“Look! I myself have created the craftsman, the one blowing upon the fire of charcoal and bringing forth a weapon as his workmanship. I myself, too, have created the ruinous man for wrecking work. <a id="chapter54_verse17"></a><b><sup>17 </sup></b>Any weapon whatever that will be formed against you will have no success, and any tongue at all that will rise up against you in the judgment you will condemn. This is the hereditary possession of the servants of Jehovah, and their righteousness is from me,” is the utterance of Jehovah.</p>
</div>