<book>
  <p class="w_biblebookname">Isaiah</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter2"></a>
    <a id="chapter2_verse1"></a>
    <span class="w_ch">
      <b>2 </b>
    </span>The thing that Isaiah the son of A′moz visioned concerning Judah and Jerusalem: <a id="chapter2_verse2"></a><b><sup>2 </sup></b>And it must occur in the final part of the days that the mountain of the house of Jehovah will become firmly established above the top of the mountains, and it will certainly be lifted up above the hills; and to it all the nations must stream. <a id="chapter2_verse3"></a><b><sup>3 </sup></b>And many peoples will certainly go and say: “Come, <span class="smcap">YOU </span>people, and let us go up to the mountain of Jehovah, to the house of the God of Jacob; and he will instruct us about his ways, and we will walk in his paths.” For out of Zion law will go forth, and the word of Jehovah out of Jerusalem. <a id="chapter2_verse4"></a><b><sup>4 </sup></b>And he will certainly render judgment among the nations and set matters straight respecting many peoples. And they will have to beat their swords into plowshares and their spears into pruning shears. Nation will not lift up sword against nation, neither will they learn war anymore.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter2_verse5"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>5 </sup>
    </b>O men of the house of Jacob, come and let us walk in the light of Jehovah.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter2_verse6"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>6 </sup>
    </b>For you have forsaken your people, the house of Jacob. For they have become full of what is from the East, and they are practicers of magic like the Phi·lis′tines, and with the children of foreigners they abound. <a id="chapter2_verse7"></a><b><sup>7 </sup></b>And their land is filled with silver and gold, and there is no limit to their treasures. And their land is filled with horses, and there is no limit to their chariots. <a id="chapter2_verse8"></a><b><sup>8 </sup></b>And their land is filled with valueless gods. To the work of one’s hands they bow down, to that which one’s fingers have made. <a id="chapter2_verse9"></a><b><sup>9 </sup></b>And earthling man bows down, and man becomes low, and you cannot possibly pardon them.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter2_verse10"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>10 </sup>
    </b>Enter into the rock and hide yourself in the dust because of the dreadfulness of Jehovah, and from his splendid superiority. <a id="chapter2_verse11"></a><b><sup>11 </sup></b>The haughty eyes of earthling man must become low, and the loftiness of men must bow down; and Jehovah alone must be put on high in that day. <a id="chapter2_verse12"></a><b><sup>12 </sup></b>For it is the day belonging to Jehovah of armies. It is upon everyone self-exalted and lofty and upon everyone lifted up or low; <a id="chapter2_verse13"></a><b><sup>13 </sup></b>and upon all the cedars of Leb′a·non that are lofty and lifted up and upon <a id="page891"></a>all the massive trees of Ba′shan; <a id="chapter2_verse14"></a><b><sup>14 </sup></b>and upon all the lofty mountains and upon all the hills that are lifted up; <a id="chapter2_verse15"></a><b><sup>15 </sup></b>and upon every high tower and upon every fortified wall; <a id="chapter2_verse16"></a><b><sup>16 </sup></b>and upon all the ships of Tar′shish and upon all desirable boats. <a id="chapter2_verse17"></a><b><sup>17 </sup></b>And the haughtiness of the earthling man must bow down, and the loftiness of men must become low; and Jehovah alone must be put on high in that day.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter2_verse18"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>18 </sup>
    </b>And the valueless gods themselves will pass away completely. <a id="chapter2_verse19"></a><b><sup>19 </sup></b>And people will enter into the caves of the rocks and into the holes of the dust because of the dreadfulness of Jehovah and from his splendid superiority, when he rises up for the earth to suffer shocks. <a id="chapter2_verse20"></a><b><sup>20 </sup></b>In that day the earthling man will throw his worthless gods of silver and his valueless gods of gold that they had made for him to bow before to the shrewmice and to the bats, <a id="chapter2_verse21"></a><b><sup>21 </sup></b>in order to enter into the holes in the rocks and into the clefts of the crags, because of the dreadfulness of Jehovah and from his splendid superiority, when he rises up for the earth to suffer shocks. <a id="chapter2_verse22"></a><b><sup>22 </sup></b>For <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>own sakes, hold off from the earthling man, whose breath is in his nostrils, for on what basis is he himself to be taken into account?</p>
</book>