<book>
  <p class="w_biblebookname">Isaiah</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter55"></a>
    <a id="chapter55_verse1"></a>
    <span class="w_ch">
      <b>55 </b>
    </span>Hey there, all <span class="smcap">YOU </span>thirsty ones! Come to the water. And the ones that have no money! Come, buy and eat. Yes, come, buy wine and milk even without money and without price. <a id="chapter55_verse2"></a><b><sup>2 </sup></b>Why do <span class="smcap">YOU </span>people keep paying out money for what is not bread, and why is <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>toil for what results in no satisfaction? Listen intently to me, and eat what is good, and let <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>soul find its exquisite delight in fatness itself. <a id="chapter55_verse3"></a><b><sup>3 </sup></b>Incline <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>ear and come to me. Listen, and <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>soul will keep alive, and I shall readily conclude with <span class="smcap">YOU </span>people an indefinitely lasting covenant respecting the loving-kindnesses to David that are faithful. <a id="chapter55_verse4"></a><b><sup>4 </sup></b>Look! As a witness to the national groups I have given him, as a leader and commander to the national groups.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter55_verse5"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>5 </sup>
    </b>Look! A nation that you do not know you will call, and those of a nation who have not known you will run even to you, for the sake of Jehovah your God, and for the Holy One of Israel, because he will have beautified you.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter55_verse6"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>6 </sup>
    </b>Search for Jehovah, <span class="smcap">YOU </span>people, while he may be found. Call to him while he proves to be near. <a id="chapter55_verse7"></a><b><sup>7 </sup></b>Let the wicked man leave his way, and the harmful man his thoughts; and let him return to Jehovah, who will have mercy upon him, and to our God, for he will forgive in a large way.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter55_verse8"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>8 </sup>
    </b>“For the thoughts of <span class="smcap">YOU </span>people are not my thoughts, nor are my ways <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>ways,” is the utterance of Jehovah. <a id="chapter55_verse9"></a><b><sup>9 </sup></b>“For as the heavens are higher than the earth, so my ways are higher than <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>ways, and my thoughts than <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>thoughts. <a id="chapter55_verse10"></a><b><sup>10 </sup></b>For just as the pouring rain descends, and the snow, from the heavens and does not return to that place, unless it actually saturates the earth and makes it produce and sprout, and seed is actually given to the sower and bread to the eater, <a id="chapter55_verse11"></a><b><sup>11 </sup></b>so my word that goes forth from my mouth will prove to be. It will not return to me without results, but it will certainly do that in which I have delighted, and it will have certain success in that for which I have sent it.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter55_verse12"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>12 </sup>
    </b>“For with rejoicing <span class="smcap">YOU </span>people will go forth, and with peace <span class="smcap">YOU </span>will be brought in. The mountains and the hills themselves will become cheerful before <span class="smcap">YOU </span>with a joyful outcry, and the very trees of the field will all clap their hands. <a id="chapter55_verse13"></a><b><sup>13 </sup></b>Instead of the thicket of thorns the juniper tree will come up. Instead of the stinging nettle the myrtle tree will come up. And it must become for Jehovah something famous, a sign to time indefinite that will not be cut off.”</p>
</book>