<book>
  <p class="w_biblebookname">Lamentations</p>
  <p class="ss">
    <span class="smcap">א </span>[<i>ʼA′leph</i>]</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter2"></a>
    <a id="chapter2_verse1"></a>
    <span class="w_ch">
      <b>2 </b>
    </span>O how Jehovah in his anger beclouds the daughter of Zion!</p>
  <p class="sz">He has thrown down from heaven to earth the beauty of Israel.</p>
  <p class="sz">And he has not remembered his footstool in the day of his anger.</p>
  <p class="ss">
    <span class="smcap">ב </span>[<i>Behth</i>]</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter2_verse2"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>2 </sup>
    </b>Jehovah has swallowed up, he has shown no compassion upon any abiding places of Jacob.</p>
  <p class="sz">In his fury he has torn down the fortified places of the daughter of Judah.</p>
  <p class="sz">He has brought into contact with the earth, he has profaned the kingdom and her princes.</p>
  <p class="ss">
    <a id="page1049"></a>
    <span class="smcap">ג </span>[<i>Gi′mel</i>]</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter2_verse3"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>3 </sup>
    </b>In the heat of anger he has cut down every horn of Israel.</p>
  <p class="sz">He has turned his right hand back from before the enemy;</p>
  <p class="sz">And in Jacob he keeps burning like a flaming fire that has devoured all around.</p>
  <p class="ss">
    <span class="smcap">ד </span>[<i>Da′leth</i>]</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter2_verse4"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>4 </sup>
    </b>He has trodden his bow like an enemy. His right hand has taken its position</p>
  <p class="sz">Like an adversary, and he kept killing all those desirable to the eyes.</p>
  <p class="sz">Into the tent of the daughter of Zion he has poured out his rage, just like fire.</p>
  <p class="ss">
    <span class="smcap">ה </span>[<i>He</i>ʼ]</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter2_verse5"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>5 </sup>
    </b>Jehovah has become like an enemy. He has swallowed down Israel.</p>
  <p class="sz">He has swallowed down all her dwelling towers; he has brought his fortified places to ruin.</p>
  <p class="sz">And in the daughter of Judah he makes mourning and lamentation abound.</p>
  <p class="ss">
    <span class="smcap">ו </span>[<i>Waw</i>]</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter2_verse6"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>6 </sup>
    </b>And he treats his booth violently like that in a garden. He has brought his festival to ruin.</p>
  <p class="sz">Jehovah has caused to be forgotten in Zion festival and sabbath,</p>
  <p class="sz">And in his angry denunciation he shows no respect for king and priest.</p>
  <p class="ss">
    <span class="smcap">ז </span>[<i>Za′yin</i>]</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter2_verse7"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>7 </sup>
    </b>Jehovah has cast off his altar. He has spurned his sanctuary.</p>
  <p class="sz">Into the hand of the enemy he has surrendered the walls of her dwelling towers.</p>
  <p class="sz">In the house of Jehovah they have let out their own voice, as in the day of a festival.</p>
  <p class="ss">
    <span class="smcap">ח </span>[<i>Chehth</i>]</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter2_verse8"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>8 </sup>
    </b>Jehovah has thought of bringing the wall of the daughter of Zion to ruin.</p>
  <p class="sz">He has stretched out the measuring line. He has not turned back his hand from swallowing up.</p>
  <p class="sz">And he causes rampart and wall to go mourning. Together they have faded away.</p>
  <p class="ss">
    <span class="smcap">ט </span>[<i>Tehth</i>]</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter2_verse9"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>9 </sup>
    </b>Her gates have sunk down into the very earth. He has destroyed and broken her bars in pieces.</p>
  <p class="sz">Her king and her princes are among the nations. There is no law.</p>
  <p class="sz">Her own prophets also have found no vision from Jehovah.</p>
  <p class="ss">
    <span class="smcap">י </span>[<i>Yohdh</i>]</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter2_verse10"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>10 </sup>
    </b>The older men of the daughter of Zion sit down on the earth, where they keep silence.</p>
  <p class="sz">They have brought up dust upon their head. They have girded on sackcloth.</p>
  <p class="sz">The virgins of Jerusalem have brought their head down to the very earth.</p>
  <p class="ss">
    <span class="smcap">כ </span>[<i>Kaph</i>]</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter2_verse11"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>11 </sup>
    </b>My eyes have come to their end in sheer tears. My intestines are in a ferment.</p>
  <p class="sz">My liver has been poured out to the very earth, on account of the crash of the daughter of my people,</p>
  <p class="sz">Because of the fainting away of child and <a id="page1050"></a>suckling in the public squares of the town.</p>
  <p class="ss">
    <span class="smcap">ל </span>[<i>La′medh</i>]</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter2_verse12"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>12 </sup>
    </b>To their mothers they kept saying: “Where are grain and wine?”</p>
  <p class="sz">Because of their fainting away like someone slain in the public squares of the city,</p>
  <p class="sz">Because of their soul being poured out into the bosom of their mothers.</p>
  <p class="ss">
    <span class="smcap">מ </span>[<i>Mem</i>]</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter2_verse13"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>13 </sup>
    </b>Of what shall I use you as a witness? What shall I liken to you, O daughter of Jerusalem?</p>
  <p class="sz">What shall I make equal to you, that I may comfort you, O virgin daughter of Zion?</p>
  <p class="sz">For your breakdown is just as great as the sea. Who can bring healing to you?</p>
  <p class="ss">
    <span class="smcap">נ </span>[<i>Nun</i>]</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter2_verse14"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>14 </sup>
    </b>Your own prophets have visioned for you worthless and unsatisfying things,</p>
  <p class="sz">And they have not uncovered your error in order to turn back your captivity,</p>
  <p class="sz">But they kept visioning for you worthless and misleading pronouncements.</p>
  <p class="ss">
    <span class="smcap">ס </span>[<i>Sa′mekh</i>]</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter2_verse15"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>15 </sup>
    </b>At you all those passing along on the road have clapped their hands.</p>
  <p class="sz">They have whistled and kept wagging their head at the daughter of Jerusalem, saying:</p>
  <p class="sz">“Is this the city of which they used to say, ‘It is the perfection of prettiness, an exultation for all the earth’?”</p>
  <p class="ss">
    <span class="smcap">פ </span>[<i>Peʼ</i>]</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter2_verse16"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>16 </sup>
    </b>At you all your enemies have opened their mouth.</p>
  <p class="sz">They have whistled and kept grinding the teeth. They have said: “We will swallow her down.</p>
  <p class="sz">This indeed is the day that we have hoped for. We have found! We have seen!”</p>
  <p class="ss">
    <span class="smcap">ע </span>[<i>ʽA′yin</i>]</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter2_verse17"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>17 </sup>
    </b>Jehovah has done what he had in mind. He has accomplished his saying,</p>
  <p class="sz">What he had commanded from the days of long ago. He has torn down and shown no compassion.</p>
  <p class="sz">And over you he causes the enemy to rejoice. He has made the horn of your adversaries high.</p>
  <p class="ss">
    <span class="smcap">צ </span>[<i>Tsa·dheh′</i>]</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter2_verse18"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>18 </sup>
    </b>Their heart has cried out to Jehovah, O wall of the daughter of Zion.</p>
  <p class="sz">Cause tears to descend just like a torrent day and night.</p>
  <p class="sz">Give no numbness to yourself. May the pupil of your eye not keep quiet.</p>
  <p class="ss">
    <span class="smcap">ק </span>[<i>Qohph</i>]</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter2_verse19"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>19 </sup>
    </b>Rise up! Whine during the night at the start of the morning watches.</p>
  <p class="sz">Pour out your heart before the face of Jehovah just like water.</p>
  <p class="sp">Raise to him your palms on account of the soul of your children,</p>
  <p class="sz">Who are fainting away because of famine at the head of all the streets.</p>
  <p class="ss">
    <span class="smcap">ר </span>[<i>Rehsh</i>]</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter2_verse20"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>20 </sup>
    </b>See, O Jehovah, and do look to the one to whom you have dealt severely in this manner.</p>
  <p class="sz">Should the women keep eating their own fruitage, the children born fully formed,</p>
  <p class="sz">
    <a id="page1051"></a>Or in the sanctuary of Jehovah should priest and prophet be killed?</p>
  <p class="ss">
    <span class="smcap">ש </span>[<i>Shin</i>]</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter2_verse21"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>21 </sup>
    </b>Boy and old man have lain down on the earth of the streets.</p>
  <p class="sz">My virgins and my young men themselves have fallen by the sword.</p>
  <p class="sz">You have killed in the day of your anger. You have slaughtered; you have had no compassion.</p>
  <p class="ss">
    <span class="smcap">ת </span>[<i>Taw</i>]</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter2_verse22"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>22 </sup>
    </b>As in the day of a festival you proceeded to call out my places of alien residence all around.</p>
  <p class="sz">And in the day of the wrath of Jehovah there proved to be no escapee or survivor;</p>
  <p class="sz">Those whom I brought forth fully formed and reared, my enemy himself exterminated them.</p>
</book>