<book>
  <p class="w_biblebookname">Lamentations</p>
  <p class="ss">
    <span class="smcap">א </span>[<i>ʼA′leph</i>]</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter1"></a>
    <a id="chapter1_verse1"></a>
    <span class="w_ch">
      <b>1 </b>
    </span>O how she has come to sit solitary, the city that was abundant with people!</p>
  <p class="sz">How she has become like a widow, she that was populous among the nations!</p>
  <p class="sz">How she that was a princess among the jurisdictional districts has come to be for forced labor!</p>
  <p class="ss">
    <span class="smcap">ב </span>[<i>Behth</i>]</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter1_verse2"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>2 </sup>
    </b>Profusely she weeps during the night, and her tears are upon her cheeks.</p>
  <p class="sz">She has no one to comfort her from among all her lovers.</p>
  <p class="sz">All her very own companions have dealt treacherously with her. They have become enemies to her.</p>
  <p class="ss">
    <span class="smcap">ג </span>[<i>Gi′mel</i>]</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter1_verse3"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>3 </sup>
    </b>Judah has gone into exile because of the affliction and because of the abundance of servitude.</p>
  <p class="sz">She herself has had to dwell among the nations. No resting-place has she found.</p>
  <p class="sz">All those who were persecuting her have overtaken her among distressing circumstances.</p>
  <p class="ss">
    <span class="smcap">ד </span>[<i>Da′leth</i>]</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter1_verse4"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>4 </sup>
    </b>The ways of Zion are mourning, because there are none coming to the festival.</p>
  <p class="sz">All her gates are laid desolate; her priests are sighing.</p>
  <p class="sz">Her virgins are grief-stricken, and she herself has bitterness.</p>
  <p class="ss">
    <span class="smcap">ה </span>[<i>He</i>ʼ]</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter1_verse5"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>5 </sup>
    </b>Her adversaries have become the head. Those who are her enemies are unconcerned.</p>
  <p class="sz">Because Jehovah himself has brought grief to her on account of the abundance of her transgressions,</p>
  <p class="sz">Her own children have walked captive before the adversary.</p>
  <p class="ss">
    <span class="smcap">ו </span>[<i>Waw</i>]</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter1_verse6"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>6 </sup>
    </b>And from the daughter of Zion there goes out all her splendor.</p>
  <p class="sz">Her princes have proved to be like stags that have found no pasturage;</p>
  <p class="sz">
    <a id="page1047"></a>And they keep walking without power before the pursuer.</p>
  <p class="ss">
    <span class="smcap">ז </span>[<i>Za′yin</i>]</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter1_verse7"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>7 </sup>
    </b>Jerusalem has remembered in the days of her affliction and of her homeless people</p>
  <p class="sz">All her desirable things that happened to be from days of long ago.</p>
  <p class="sp">When her people fell into the hand of the adversary and she had no helper,</p>
  <p class="sz">The adversaries saw her. They laughed over her collapse.</p>
  <p class="ss">
    <span class="smcap">ח </span>[<i>Chehth</i>]</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter1_verse8"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>8 </sup>
    </b>Jerusalem has committed outright sin. That is why she has become a mere abhorrent thing.</p>
  <p class="sz">All who were honoring her have treated her as something cheap, for they have seen her nakedness.</p>
  <p class="sz">She herself is also sighing and turns her back.</p>
  <p class="ss">
    <span class="smcap">ט </span>[<i>Tehth</i>]</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter1_verse9"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>9 </sup>
    </b>Her uncleanness is in her skirts. She did not remember the future for her,</p>
  <p class="sz">And down she goes in a wondrous manner. No comforter does she have.</p>
  <p class="sz">O Jehovah, see my affliction, for the enemy has put on great airs.</p>
  <p class="ss">
    <span class="smcap">י </span>[<i>Yohdh</i>]</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter1_verse10"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>10 </sup>
    </b>The adversary has spread out his own hand against all her desirable things.</p>
  <p class="sz">For she has seen nations that have come into her sanctuary,</p>
  <p class="sz">Whom you commanded that they should not come into the congregation belonging to you.</p>
  <p class="ss">
    <span class="smcap">כ </span>[<i>Kaph</i>]</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter1_verse11"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>11 </sup>
    </b>All her people are sighing; they are looking for bread.</p>
  <p class="sz">They have given their desirable things for something to eat, in order to refresh the soul.</p>
  <p class="sz">See, O Jehovah, and do look, for I have become as a valueless woman.</p>
  <p class="ss">
    <span class="smcap">ל </span>[<i>La′medh</i>]</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter1_verse12"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>12 </sup>
    </b>Is it nothing to all <span class="smcap">YOU </span>who are passing along the way? Look and see.</p>
  <p class="sz">Does there exist any pain like my pain that has been severely dealt out to me,</p>
  <p class="sz">With which Jehovah has caused grief in the day of his burning anger?</p>
  <p class="ss">
    <span class="smcap">מ </span>[<i>Mem</i>]</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter1_verse13"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>13 </sup>
    </b>From the height he has sent fire into my bones, and he subdues each one.</p>
  <p class="sz">He has spread out a net for my feet. He has turned me backward.</p>
  <p class="sz">He has made me a woman laid desolate. All the day I am ill.</p>
  <p class="ss">
    <span class="smcap">נ </span>[<i>Nun</i>]</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter1_verse14"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>14 </sup>
    </b>He has kept himself alert against my transgressions. In his hand they intertwine one another.</p>
  <p class="sz">They have come up upon my neck. My power has stumbled.</p>
  <p class="sz">Jehovah has given me into the hand of those against whom I am unable to rise up.</p>
  <p class="ss">
    <span class="smcap">ס </span>[<i>Sa′mekh</i>]</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter1_verse15"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>15 </sup>
    </b>All my powerful ones Jehovah has tossed aside from the midst of me.</p>
  <p class="sz">He has called against me a meeting, in order to break my young men to pieces.</p>
  <p class="sz">Jehovah has trodden the very winepress belonging to the virgin daughter of Judah.</p>
  <p class="ss">
    <a id="page1048"></a>
    <span class="smcap">ע </span>[<i>ʽA′yin</i>]</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter1_verse16"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>16 </sup>
    </b>Over these things I am weeping as a woman. My eye, my eye is running down with waters.</p>
  <p class="sz">For a comforter has become far away from me, someone to refresh my soul.</p>
  <p class="sz">My sons have become those laid desolate, for the enemy has put on great airs.</p>
  <p class="ss">
    <span class="smcap">פ </span>[<i>Peʼ</i>]</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter1_verse17"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>17 </sup>
    </b>Zion has spread out her hands. No comforter does she have.</p>
  <p class="sz">Jehovah has given a command concerning Jacob to all who are around him as his adversaries.</p>
  <p class="sz">Jerusalem has become an abhorrent thing in among them.</p>
  <p class="ss">
    <span class="smcap">צ </span>[<i>Tsa·dheh′</i>]</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter1_verse18"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>18 </sup>
    </b>Jehovah is righteous, for it is against his mouth that I have rebelled.</p>
  <p class="sz">Listen, now, all <span class="smcap">YOU </span>peoples, and see my pain.</p>
  <p class="sz">My own virgins and my own young men have gone into captivity.</p>
  <p class="ss">
    <span class="smcap">ק </span>[<i>Qohph</i>]</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter1_verse19"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>19 </sup>
    </b>I have called to those intensely loving me. They themselves have tricked me.</p>
  <p class="sz">In the city my own priests and my own old men have expired,</p>
  <p class="sz">While they had to look for something to eat for themselves that they might refresh their soul.</p>
  <p class="ss">
    <span class="smcap">ר </span>[<i>Rehsh</i>]</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter1_verse20"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>20 </sup>
    </b>See, O Jehovah, for I am in sore straits. My very intestines are in a ferment.</p>
  <p class="sz">My heart has been overturned in the midst of me, for I have been absolutely rebellious.</p>
  <p class="sz">Outside the sword caused bereavement of children. Within the house it is the same as death.</p>
  <p class="ss">
    <span class="smcap">ש </span>[<i>Shin</i>]</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter1_verse21"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>21 </sup>
    </b>People have heard how I myself am sighing as a woman. There is no comforter for me.</p>
  <p class="sz">All my enemies themselves have heard of my calamity. They have exulted, because you yourself have done it.</p>
  <p class="sz">You will certainly bring the day that you have proclaimed, that they may become like me.</p>
  <p class="ss">
    <span class="smcap">ת </span>[<i>Taw</i>]</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter1_verse22"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>22 </sup>
    </b>May all their badness come before you, and deal severely with them,</p>
  <p class="sz">Just as you have dealt severely with me on account of all my transgressions.</p>
  <p class="sz">For my sighs are many, and my heart is ill.</p>
</book>