<book>
  <p class="w_biblebookname">Ezekiel</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter41"></a>
    <a id="chapter41_verse1"></a>
    <span class="w_ch">
      <b>41 </b>
    </span>And he proceeded to bring me into the temple, and he went measuring the side pillars, six cubits being the width over here and six cubits the width over there, the width of the side pillar. <a id="chapter41_verse2"></a><b><sup>2 </sup></b>And the width of the entrance was ten cubits, and the sides of the entrance were five cubits over here and five cubits over there. And he went measuring its length, forty cubits; and the width, twenty cubits.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter41_verse3"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>3 </sup>
    </b>And he went inside and proceeded to measure the side pillar of the entrance, two cubits; and the entrance, six cubits; and the width of the entrance was seven cubits. <a id="chapter41_verse4"></a><b><sup>4 </sup></b>And he went measuring its length, twenty cubits; and its width, twenty cubits, before the temple. Then he said to me: “This is the Most Holy.”</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter41_verse5"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>5 </sup>
    </b>And he proceeded to measure the wall of the house, six cubits. And the width of the side chamber was four cubits, round about; all around the house it was, round about. <a id="chapter41_verse6"></a><b><sup>6 </sup></b>And the side chambers were side chamber upon side chamber, three stories, and for thirty times; and they were entering into the wall that belonged to the house, that is, the side chambers all around, in order that they might be held in, but they were not held in in the wall of the house. <a id="chapter41_verse7"></a><b><sup>7 </sup></b>And there was a widening out and turning around upward and upward to the side chambers, for the winding passage of the house was upward and upward all around the house. Therefore there was a widening to the house upward, and from the lowest story one could go up to the uppermost story, by the middle story.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="page1119"></a>
    <a id="chapter41_verse8"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>8 </sup>
    </b>And I saw that there was a high platform for the house all around. As regards the foundations of the side chambers, there was a full reed of six cubits to the joining. <a id="chapter41_verse9"></a><b><sup>9 </sup></b>The width of the wall that belonged to the side chamber, to the outside, was five cubits. And there was a space left open by the construction of the side chambers that belonged to the house.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter41_verse10"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>10 </sup>
    </b>And between the dining rooms the width was twenty cubits round about the house, all around. <a id="chapter41_verse11"></a><b><sup>11 </sup></b>And the entrance of the side chamber was to the space left open, one entrance being toward the north and one entrance to the south; and the width of the area of the space left open was five cubits, all around.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter41_verse12"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>12 </sup>
    </b>And the building that was before the separated area, the side of which was toward the west, was seventy cubits wide. And the wall of the building was five cubits in width, it being all around; and its length was ninety cubits.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter41_verse13"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>13 </sup>
    </b>And he measured the house, a hundred cubits in length; and the separated area and the building and its walls, a hundred cubits in length. <a id="chapter41_verse14"></a><b><sup>14 </sup></b>And the width of the front of the house and the separated area to the east was a hundred cubits.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter41_verse15"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>15 </sup>
    </b>And he measured the length of the building before the separated area that was behind it and its galleries on this side and on that side, a hundred cubits.</p>
  <p class="sb">Also the temple and the inner place and the porches of the courtyard; <a id="chapter41_verse16"></a><b><sup>16 </sup></b>the thresholds, and the windows with narrowing frames, and the galleries were round about the three of them. In front of the threshold there was paneling of wood all around, and from the floor up to the windows; and the windows were covered ones. <a id="chapter41_verse17"></a><b><sup>17 </sup></b>To above the entrance and as far as the inner house and on the outside and upon the whole wall all around, on the inner house and on the outside, there were measurements, <a id="chapter41_verse18"></a><b><sup>18 </sup></b>even carved cherubs and palm-tree figures, with a palm-tree figure between a cherub and a cherub, and the cherub had two faces. <a id="chapter41_verse19"></a><b><sup>19 </sup></b>And the face of a man was toward the palm-tree figure on this side, and the face of a maned young lion was toward the palm-tree figure on that side, they being carved on the whole house all around. <a id="chapter41_verse20"></a><b><sup>20 </sup></b>From the floor to above the entrance there were carved cherubs and palm-tree figures, on the wall of the temple.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter41_verse21"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>21 </sup>
    </b>As for the temple, the doorpost was squared; and in front of the holy place there was an appearance like the following appearance: <a id="chapter41_verse22"></a><b><sup>22 </sup></b>the wooden altar was three cubits high, and its length was two cubits, and it had its corner posts. And its length and its walls were of wood. And he proceeded to speak to me: “This is the table that is before Jehovah.”</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter41_verse23"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>23 </sup>
    </b>And the temple and the holy place had two doors. <a id="chapter41_verse24"></a><b><sup>24 </sup></b>And two door leaves belonged to the doors, the two being turnable. One door had two door leaves, and the other had two door leaves. <a id="chapter41_verse25"></a><b><sup>25 </sup></b>And there were made upon them, upon the doors of the temple, cherubs and palm-tree figures, like those made for the walls, and there was a canopy of wood over the front of the porch outside. <a id="chapter41_verse26"></a><b><sup>26 </sup></b>And there were windows of narrowing frames and palm-tree figures over here and over there along the sides of the porch and the side chambers of the house and the canopies.</p>
</book>