<book>
  <p class="w_biblebookname">Hosea</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter6"></a>
    <a id="chapter6_verse1"></a>
    <span class="w_ch">
      <b>6 </b>
    </span>“Come, <span class="smcap">YOU </span>people, and do let us return to Jehovah, for he himself has torn in pieces but he will heal us. He kept striking, but he will bind us up. <a id="chapter6_verse2"></a><b><sup>2 </sup></b>He will make us alive after two days. On the third day he will make us get up, and we shall live before him. <a id="chapter6_verse3"></a><b><sup>3 </sup></b>And we will know, we will pursue to know Jehovah. Like dawn, his going forth is firmly established. And he will come in like a pouring rain to us; like a spring rain that saturates the earth.”</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter6_verse4"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>4 </sup>
    </b>“What shall I do to you, O E′phra·im? What shall I do to you, O Judah, when the loving-kindness of <span class="smcap">YOU </span>people is like the morning clouds and like the dew that early goes away? <a id="chapter6_verse5"></a><b><sup>5 </sup></b>That is why I shall have to hew them by the prophets; I shall have to kill them by the sayings of my mouth. And the judgments upon you will be as the light that goes forth. <a id="chapter6_verse6"></a><b><sup>6 </sup></b>For in loving-kindness I have taken delight, and not in sacrifice; and in the knowledge of God rather than in whole burnt offerings. <a id="chapter6_verse7"></a><b><sup>7 </sup></b>But they themselves, like earthling man, have overstepped the covenant. There is where they have dealt treacherously with me. <a id="chapter6_verse8"></a><b><sup>8 </sup></b>Gil′e·ad is a town of practicers of what is harmful; their footprints are blood. <a id="chapter6_verse9"></a><b><sup>9 </sup></b>And as in the lying in wait for a man, the association of priests are marauding bands. By the wayside they commit murder at She′chem, because they have carried on nothing but loose conduct. <a id="chapter6_verse10"></a><b><sup>10 </sup></b>In the house of Israel I have seen a horrible thing. There there is fornication on the part of E′phra·im. Israel has defiled itself. <a id="chapter6_verse11"></a><b><sup>11 </sup></b>Furthermore, O Judah, a harvest has been fixed for you, when I gather back the captive ones of my people.”</p>
</book>