<book>
  <p class="w_biblebookname">Hosea</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter11"></a>
    <a id="chapter11_verse1"></a>
    <span class="w_ch">
      <b>11 </b>
    </span>“When Israel was a boy, then I loved him, and out of Egypt I called my son.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter11_verse2"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>2 </sup>
    </b>“They called them. To that <a id="page1162"></a>same extent they went away from before them. To the Ba′al images they took up sacrificing, and to the graven images they began making sacrificial smoke. <a id="chapter11_verse3"></a><b><sup>3 </sup></b>But as for me, I taught E′phra·im to walk, taking them upon my arms; and they did not recognize that I had healed them. <a id="chapter11_verse4"></a><b><sup>4 </sup></b>With the ropes of earthling man I kept drawing them, with the cords of love, so that I became to them as those lifting off a yoke on their jaws, and gently I brought food to each one. <a id="chapter11_verse5"></a><b><sup>5 </sup></b>He will not return to the land of Egypt, but As·syr′i·a will be his king, because they refused to return. <a id="chapter11_verse6"></a><b><sup>6 </sup></b>And a sword will certainly whirl about in his cities and make an end of his bars and devour because of their counsels. <a id="chapter11_verse7"></a><b><sup>7 </sup></b>And my people are tending toward unfaithfulness to me. And upward they call it; no one at all does any rising up.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter11_verse8"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>8 </sup>
    </b>“How can I give you up, O E′phra·im? How can I deliver you up, O Israel? How can I set you as Ad′mah? How can I place you like Ze·boi′im? My heart has changed within me; at the same time my compassions have grown hot. <a id="chapter11_verse9"></a><b><sup>9 </sup></b>I shall not express my burning anger. I shall not bring E′phra·im to ruin again, for I am God and not man, the Holy One in the midst of you; and I shall not come in excitement. <a id="chapter11_verse10"></a><b><sup>10 </sup></b>After Jehovah they will walk. Like a lion he will roar; for he himself will roar, and sons will come trembling from the west. <a id="chapter11_verse11"></a><b><sup>11 </sup></b>Like a bird they will come trembling out of Egypt, and like a dove out of the land of As·syr′i·a; and I shall certainly make them dwell in their houses,” is the utterance of Jehovah.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter11_verse12"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>12 </sup>
    </b>“With lying, E′phra·im has surrounded me, and with deception the house of Israel. But Judah is yet roaming with God, and with the Most Holy One he is trustworthy.”</p>
</book>