<book>
  <p class="w_biblebookname">Hosea</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter5"></a>
    <a id="chapter5_verse1"></a>
    <span class="w_ch">
      <b>5 </b>
    </span>“Hear this, O priests, and pay attention, O house of Israel, and <span class="smcap">YOU</span>, O house of the king, give ear, for with <span class="smcap">YOU </span>people the judgment has to do; because a trap is what <span class="smcap">YOU </span>have become to Miz′pah and as a net spread over Ta′bor. <a id="chapter5_verse2"></a><b><sup>2 </sup></b>And in slaughter work those falling away have gone deep down, and I was an exhortation to all of them. <a id="chapter5_verse3"></a><b><sup>3 </sup></b>I personally have known E′phra·im, and Israel itself has not been hidden from me. For now, O E′phra·im, you have treated women like harlots; Israel has defiled itself. <a id="chapter5_verse4"></a><b><sup>4 </sup></b>Their dealings do not permit of a returning to their God, because there is a spirit of fornication in the midst of them; and Jehovah himself they have not acknowledged. <a id="chapter5_verse5"></a><b><sup>5 </sup></b>And the pride of Israel has testified to his face; and Israel and E′phra·im themselves are made to stumble in their error. Judah has also stumbled with them. <a id="chapter5_verse6"></a><b><sup>6 </sup></b>With their flock and with their herd they proceeded to go and look for Jehovah, but they could not find him. He had drawn away from them. <a id="chapter5_verse7"></a><b><sup>7 </sup></b>With Jehovah himself they have dealt treacherously, for it is to strange sons that they have become father. Now a month will devour them with their portions.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter5_verse8"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>8 </sup>
    </b>“B<span class="smcap">LOW </span>a horn in Gib′e·ah, a trumpet in Ra′mah! S<span class="smcap">HOUT </span>a war cry at Beth-a′ven—after you, O Benjamin! <a id="chapter5_verse9"></a><b><sup>9 </sup></b>O E′phra·im, a mere object of astonishment you will become in the day of rebuke. Among the tribes of Israel I have made known trustworthy words. <a id="chapter5_verse10"></a><b><sup>10 </sup></b>The princes of Judah have become just like those moving back a boundary. Upon them I shall pour out my fury just like water. <a id="chapter5_verse11"></a><b><sup>11 </sup></b>E′phra·im is oppressed, crushed in justice, for he had taken it upon himself to walk after his adversary. <a id="chapter5_verse12"></a><b><sup>12 </sup></b>And I was like the moth to E′phra·im and just like rottenness to the house of Judah.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter5_verse13"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>13 </sup>
    </b>“And E′phra·im got to see his sickness, and Judah his ulcer. And E′phra·im proceeded to go to As·syr′i·a and send to a great king. But that one himself was unable to give healing to <span class="smcap">YOU </span>people, and he could not take from <span class="smcap">YOU </span>an ulcer with any cure. <a id="chapter5_verse14"></a><b><sup>14 </sup></b>For I shall be like a young lion to E′phra·im and like a maned young lion to the house of Judah. I, I myself shall tear to pieces <a id="page1158"></a>and I shall go and carry off, and there will be no deliverer. <a id="chapter5_verse15"></a><b><sup>15 </sup></b>I shall go, I will return to my place until they bear their guilt; and they will certainly seek my face. When they are in sore straits, they will seek me.”</p>
</book>