<book>
  <p class="w_biblebookname">Jonah</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter2"></a>
    <a id="chapter2_verse1"></a>
    <span class="w_ch">
      <b>2 </b>
    </span>Then Jo′nah prayed to Jehovah his God from the inward parts of the fish <a id="chapter2_verse2"></a><b><sup>2 </sup></b>and said:</p>
  <p class="sp">“Out of my distress I called out to Jehovah, and he proceeded to answer me.</p>
  <p class="sz">Out of the belly of She′ol I cried for help.</p>
  <p class="sz">You heard my voice.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter2_verse3"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>3 </sup>
    </b>When you threw me to the depths, into the heart of the open sea,</p>
  <p class="sz">Then a very river encircled me.</p>
  <p class="sz">All your breakers and your waves—over me they passed on.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter2_verse4"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>4 </sup>
    </b>And as for me, I said, ‘I have been driven away from in front of your eyes!</p>
  <p class="sz">How shall I gaze again upon your holy temple?’</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter2_verse5"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>5 </sup>
    </b>Waters encircled me clear to the soul; the watery deep itself kept enclosing me.</p>
  <p class="sz">Weeds were wound around my head.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter2_verse6"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>6 </sup>
    </b>To the bottoms of the mountains I went down.</p>
  <p class="sz">As for the earth, its bars were upon me for time indefinite.</p>
  <p class="sz">But out of the pit you proceeded to bring up my life, O Jehovah my God.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter2_verse7"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>7 </sup>
    </b>When my soul fainted away within me, Jehovah was the One whom I remembered.</p>
  <p class="sz">Then my prayer came in to you, into your holy temple.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter2_verse8"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>8 </sup>
    </b>As for those who are observing the idols of untruth, they leave their own loving-kindness.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter2_verse9"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>9 </sup>
    </b>But as for me, with the voice of thanksgiving I will sacrifice to you.</p>
  <p class="sz">What I have vowed, I will pay. Salvation belongs to Jehovah.”</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter2_verse10"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>10 </sup>
    </b>In time Jehovah commanded the fish, so that it vomited out Jo′nah onto the dry land.</p>
</book>