<book>
  <p class="w_biblebookname">Micah</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter7"></a>
    <a id="chapter7_verse1"></a>
    <span class="w_ch">
      <b>7 </b>
    </span>Too bad for me, for I have become like the gatherings of summer fruit, like the gleaning of a grape gathering! There is no grape cluster to eat, no early fig, that my soul would desire! <a id="chapter7_verse2"></a><b><sup>2 </sup></b>The loyal one has perished from the earth, and among mankind there is no upright one. All of them, for bloodshed they lie in wait. They hunt, everyone his own brother, with a dragnet. <a id="chapter7_verse3"></a><b><sup>3 </sup></b>Their hands are upon what is bad, to do it well; the prince is asking for something, and the one who is judging does so for the reward, and the great one is speaking forth the craving of his soul, his very own; and they interweave it. <a id="chapter7_verse4"></a><b><sup>4 </sup></b>Their best one is like a brier, their most upright one is worse than a thorn hedge. The day of your watchmen, of your being given attention, must come. Now will occur the confounding of them.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter7_verse5"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>5 </sup>
    </b>Do not put <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>faith in a companion. Do not put <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>trust in a confidential friend. From her who is lying in your bosom guard the openings of your mouth. <a id="chapter7_verse6"></a><b><sup>6 </sup></b>For a son is despising a father; a daughter is rising up against her mother; a daughter-in-law against her mother-in-law; a man’s enemies are the men of his household.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter7_verse7"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>7 </sup>
    </b>But as for me, it is for Jehovah that I shall keep on the lookout. I will show a waiting attitude for the God of my salvation. My God will hear me.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter7_verse8"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>8 </sup>
    </b>Do not rejoice over me, O you woman enemy of mine. Although I have fallen, I shall certainly rise up; although I dwell in the darkness, Jehovah will be a light to me. <a id="chapter7_verse9"></a><b><sup>9 </sup></b>The raging of Jehovah I shall bear—for I have sinned against him—until he conducts my legal case and actually executes justice for me. He will bring me forth to the light; I shall look upon his righteousness. <a id="chapter7_verse10"></a><b><sup>10 </sup></b>And my enemy will see, and shame will cover her, who was saying to me: “Where is he, Jehovah your God?” My own eyes will look upon her. Now she <a id="page1187"></a>will become a place of trampling, like the mire of streets.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter7_verse11"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>11 </sup>
    </b>The day for building your stone walls, at that day the decree will be far away. <a id="chapter7_verse12"></a><b><sup>12 </sup></b>At that day even all the way to you they will come from As·syr′i·a and the cities of Egypt, and from Egypt even all the way to the River; and from sea to sea, and from mountain to the mountain. <a id="chapter7_verse13"></a><b><sup>13 </sup></b>And the land must become a desolate waste on account of its inhabitants, because of the fruit of their dealings.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter7_verse14"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>14 </sup>
    </b>Shepherd your people with your staff, the flock of your inheritance, the one who was residing alone in a forest—in the midst of an orchard. Let them feed on Ba′shan and Gil′e·ad as in the days of a long time ago.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter7_verse15"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>15 </sup>
    </b>“As in the days of your coming forth from the land of Egypt I shall show him wonderful things. <a id="chapter7_verse16"></a><b><sup>16 </sup></b>Nations will see and become ashamed of all their mightiness. They will put their hand upon their mouth; their very ears will become deaf. <a id="chapter7_verse17"></a><b><sup>17 </sup></b>They will lick up dust like the serpents; like reptiles of the earth they will come in agitation out of their bulwarks. To Jehovah our God they will come quivering, and they will be afraid of you.”</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter7_verse18"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>18 </sup>
    </b>Who is a God like you, one pardoning error and passing over transgression of the remnant of his inheritance? He will certainly not hold onto his anger forever, for he is delighting in loving-kindness. <a id="chapter7_verse19"></a><b><sup>19 </sup></b>He will again show us mercy; he will subject our errors. And you will throw into the depths of the sea all their sins. <a id="chapter7_verse20"></a><b><sup>20 </sup></b>You will give the trueness given to Jacob, the loving-kindness given to Abraham, which you swore to our forefathers from the days of long ago.</p>
</book>