<div>
  <p class="w_biblebookname">Zephaniah</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter3"></a>
    <a id="chapter3_verse1"></a>
    <span class="w_ch">
      <b>3 </b>
    </span>Woe to her that is rebelling and polluting herself, the oppressive city! <a id="chapter3_verse2"></a><b><sup>2 </sup></b>She did not listen to a voice; she did not accept discipline. In Jehovah she did not trust. To her God she did not draw near. <a id="chapter3_verse3"></a><b><sup>3 </sup></b>Her princes in the midst of her were roaring lions. Her judges were evening wolves that did not gnaw bones till the morning. <a id="chapter3_verse4"></a><b><sup>4 </sup></b>Her prophets were insolent, were men of treachery. Her priests themselves profaned what was holy; they did violence to the law. <a id="chapter3_verse5"></a><b><sup>5 </sup></b>Jehovah was righteous in the midst of her; he would do no unrighteousness. Morning by morning he kept giving his own judicial decision. At <a id="page1196"></a>daylight it did not prove lacking. But the unrighteous one was knowing no shame.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter3_verse6"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>6 </sup>
    </b>“I cut off nations; their corner towers were desolated. I devastated their streets, so that there was no one passing through. Their cities were laid waste, so that there was no man, so that there was no inhabitant. <a id="chapter3_verse7"></a><b><sup>7 </sup></b>I said, ‘Surely you will fear me; you will accept discipline’; so that her dwelling might not be cut off—all that I must call to account against her. Truly they acted promptly in making all their dealings ruinous.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter3_verse8"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>8 </sup>
    </b>“‘Therefore keep yourselves in expectation of me,’ is the utterance of Jehovah, ‘till the day of my rising up to the booty, for my judicial decision is to gather nations, for me to collect together kingdoms, in order to pour out upon them my denunciation, all my burning anger; for by the fire of my zeal all the earth will be devoured. <a id="chapter3_verse9"></a><b><sup>9 </sup></b>For then I shall give to peoples the change to a pure language, in order for them all to call upon the name of Jehovah, in order to serve him shoulder to shoulder.’</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter3_verse10"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>10 </sup>
    </b>“From the region of the rivers of E·thi·o′pi·a the ones entreating me, namely, the daughter of my scattered ones, will bring a gift to me. <a id="chapter3_verse11"></a><b><sup>11 </sup></b>In that day you will not be ashamed because of all your dealings with which you transgressed against me, for then I shall remove from the midst of you your haughtily exultant ones; and you will never again be haughty in my holy mountain. <a id="chapter3_verse12"></a><b><sup>12 </sup></b>And I shall certainly let remain in the midst of you a people humble and lowly, and they will actually take refuge in the name of Jehovah. <a id="chapter3_verse13"></a><b><sup>13 </sup></b>As regards the remaining ones of Israel, they will do no unrighteousness, nor speak a lie, nor will there be found in their mouths a tricky tongue; for they themselves will feed and actually lie stretched out, and there will be no one making them tremble.”</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter3_verse14"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>14 </sup>
    </b>Joyfully cry out, O daughter of Zion! Break out in cheers, O Israel! Rejoice and exult with all the heart, O daughter of Jerusalem! <a id="chapter3_verse15"></a><b><sup>15 </sup></b>Jehovah has removed the judgments upon you. He has turned away your enemy. The king of Israel, Jehovah, is in the midst of you. You will fear calamity no more. <a id="chapter3_verse16"></a><b><sup>16 </sup></b>In that day it will be said to Jerusalem: “Do not be afraid, O Zion. May your hands not drop down. <a id="chapter3_verse17"></a><b><sup>17 </sup></b>Jehovah your God is in the midst of you. As a mighty One, he will save. He will exult over you with rejoicing. He will become silent in his love. He will be joyful over you with happy cries.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter3_verse18"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>18 </sup>
    </b>“The ones grief-stricken in absence from your festal season I shall certainly gather together; absent from you they happened to be, because of bearing reproach on her account. <a id="chapter3_verse19"></a><b><sup>19 </sup></b>Here I am acting against all those afflicting you, at that time; and I will save her that is limping, and her that is dispersed I shall collect together. And I will set them as a praise and as a name in all the land of their shame. <a id="chapter3_verse20"></a><b><sup>20 </sup></b>At that time I shall bring <span class="smcap">YOU </span>people in, even in the time of my collecting <span class="smcap">YOU </span>together. For I shall make <span class="smcap">YOU </span>people to be a name and a praise among all the peoples of the earth, when I gather back <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>captive ones before <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>eyes,” Jehovah has said.</p>
</div>