<book>
  <p class="w_biblebookname">Matthew</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter28"></a>
    <a id="chapter28_verse1"></a>
    <span class="w_ch">
      <b>28 </b>
    </span>After the sabbath, when it was growing light on the first day of the week, Mary Mag′da·lene and the other Mary came to view the grave.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter28_verse2"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>2 </sup>
    </b>And, notice! a great earthquake had taken place; for Jehovah’s angel had descended from heaven and approached and rolled away the stone, and was sitting on it. <a id="chapter28_verse3"></a><b><sup>3 </sup></b>His outward appearance was as lightning, and his clothing as white as snow. <a id="chapter28_verse4"></a><b><sup>4 </sup></b>Yes, for fear of him the watchmen trembled and became as dead men.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter28_verse5"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>5 </sup>
    </b>But the angel in answer said to the women: “Do not <span class="smcap">YOU </span>be fearful, for I know <span class="smcap">YOU </span>are looking for Jesus who was impaled. <a id="chapter28_verse6"></a><b><sup>6 </sup></b>He is not here, for he was raised up, as he said. Come, see the place where he was lying. <a id="chapter28_verse7"></a><b><sup>7 </sup></b>And go quickly and tell his disciples that he was raised up from the dead, and, look! he is going ahead of <span class="smcap">YOU </span>into Gal′i·lee; there <span class="smcap">YOU </span>will see him. Look! I have told <span class="smcap">YOU</span>.”</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter28_verse8"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>8 </sup>
    </b>So, quickly leaving the memorial tomb, with fear and great joy, they ran to report to his disciples. <a id="chapter28_verse9"></a><b><sup>9 </sup></b>And, look! Jesus met them and said: “Good day!” They approached and caught him by his feet and did obeisance to him. <a id="chapter28_verse10"></a><b><sup>10 </sup></b>Then Jesus said to them: “Have no fear! Go, report to my brothers, that they may go off into Gal′i·lee; and there they will see me.”</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter28_verse11"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>11 </sup>
    </b>While they were on their way, look! some of the guard went into the city and reported to the chief priests all the things that had happened. <a id="chapter28_verse12"></a><b><sup>12 </sup></b>And after these had gathered together with the older men and taken counsel, they gave a sufficient number of silver pieces to the soldiers <a id="chapter28_verse13"></a><b><sup>13 </sup></b>and said: “Say, ‘His disciples came in the night and stole him while we were sleeping.’ <a id="chapter28_verse14"></a><b><sup>14 </sup></b>And if this gets to the governor’s ears, we will persuade him and will set <span class="smcap">YOU </span>free from worry.” <a id="chapter28_verse15"></a><b><sup>15 </sup></b>So they took the silver pieces and did as they were instructed; and this saying has been spread abroad among the Jews up to this very day.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter28_verse16"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>16 </sup>
    </b>However, the eleven disciples went into Gal′i·lee to the mountain where Jesus had arranged for them, <a id="chapter28_verse17"></a><b><sup>17 </sup></b>and when they saw him they did obeisance, but some doubted. <a id="chapter28_verse18"></a><b><sup>18 </sup></b>And Jesus approached and spoke to them, saying: “All authority has been given me in heaven and on the earth. <a id="chapter28_verse19"></a><b><sup>19 </sup></b>Go therefore and make disciples of people of all the nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father and of the Son and of the holy spirit, <a id="chapter28_verse20"></a><b><sup>20 </sup></b>teaching them to observe all the things I have commanded <span class="smcap">YOU</span>. And, look! I am with <span class="smcap">YOU </span>all the days until the conclusion of the system of things.”</p>
</book>