<div>
  <p class="w_biblebookname">Matthew</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter18"></a>
    <a id="chapter18_verse1"></a>
    <span class="w_ch">
      <b>18 </b>
    </span>In that hour the disciples came near to Jesus and said: “Who really is greatest in the kingdom of the heavens?” <a id="page1239"></a><a id="chapter18_verse2"></a><b><sup>2 </sup></b>So, calling a young child to him, he set it in their midst <a id="chapter18_verse3"></a><b><sup>3 </sup></b>and said: “Truly I say to <span class="smcap">YOU</span>, Unless <span class="smcap">YOU </span>turn around and become as young children, <span class="smcap">YOU </span>will by no means enter into the kingdom of the heavens. <a id="chapter18_verse4"></a><b><sup>4 </sup></b>Therefore, whoever will humble himself like this young child is the one that is the greatest in the kingdom of the heavens; <a id="chapter18_verse5"></a><b><sup>5 </sup></b>and whoever receives one such young child on the basis of my name receives me also. <a id="chapter18_verse6"></a><b><sup>6 </sup></b>But whoever stumbles one of these little ones who put faith in me, it is more beneficial for him to have hung around his neck a millstone such as is turned by an ass and to be sunk in the wide, open sea.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter18_verse7"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>7 </sup>
    </b>“Woe to the world due to the stumbling blocks! Of course, the stumbling blocks must of necessity come, but woe to the man through whom the stumbling block comes! <a id="chapter18_verse8"></a><b><sup>8 </sup></b>If, then, your hand or your foot is making you stumble, cut it off and throw it away from you; it is finer for you to enter into life maimed or lame than to be thrown with two hands or two feet into the everlasting fire. <a id="chapter18_verse9"></a><b><sup>9 </sup></b>Also, if your eye is making you stumble, tear it out and throw it away from you; it is finer for you to enter one-eyed into life than to be thrown with two eyes into the fiery Ge·hen′na. <a id="chapter18_verse10"></a><b><sup>10 </sup></b>See to it that <span class="smcap">YOU </span>men do not despise one of these little ones; for I tell <span class="smcap">YOU </span>that their angels in heaven always behold the face of my Father who is in heaven. <a id="chapter18_verse11"></a><b><sup>11 </sup></b>——</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter18_verse12"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>12 </sup>
    </b>“What do <span class="smcap">YOU </span>think? If a certain man comes to have a hundred sheep and one of them gets strayed, will he not leave the ninety-nine upon the mountains and set out on a search for the one that is straying? <a id="chapter18_verse13"></a><b><sup>13 </sup></b>And if he happens to find it, I certainly tell <span class="smcap">YOU</span>, he rejoices more over it than over the ninety-nine that have not strayed. <a id="chapter18_verse14"></a><b><sup>14 </sup></b>Likewise it is not a desirable thing with my Father who is in heaven for one of these little ones to perish.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter18_verse15"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>15 </sup>
    </b>“Moreover, if your brother commits a sin, go lay bare his fault between you and him alone. If he listens to you, you have gained your brother. <a id="chapter18_verse16"></a><b><sup>16 </sup></b>But if he does not listen, take along with you one or two more, in order that at the mouth of two or three witnesses every matter may be established. <a id="chapter18_verse17"></a><b><sup>17 </sup></b>If he does not listen to them, speak to the congregation. If he does not listen even to the congregation, let him be to you just as a man of the nations and as a tax collector.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter18_verse18"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>18 </sup>
    </b>“Truly I say to <span class="smcap">YOU </span>men, Whatever things <span class="smcap">YOU </span>may bind on earth will be things bound in heaven, and whatever things <span class="smcap">YOU </span>may loose on earth will be things loosed in heaven. <a id="chapter18_verse19"></a><b><sup>19 </sup></b>Again I truly say to <span class="smcap">YOU</span>, If two of <span class="smcap">YOU </span>on earth agree concerning anything of importance that they should request, it will take place for them due to my Father in heaven. <a id="chapter18_verse20"></a><b><sup>20 </sup></b>For where there are two or three gathered together in my name, there I am in their midst.”</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter18_verse21"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>21 </sup>
    </b>Then Peter came up and said to him: “Lord, how many times is my brother to sin against me and am I to forgive him? Up to seven times?” <a id="chapter18_verse22"></a><b><sup>22 </sup></b>Jesus said to him: “I say to you, not, Up to seven times, but, Up to seventy-seven times.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter18_verse23"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>23 </sup>
    </b>“That is why the kingdom of the heavens has become like a man, a king, that wanted to settle accounts with his slaves. <a id="chapter18_verse24"></a><b><sup>24 </sup></b>When he started to settle them, there was brought in a man who owed him ten thousand talents [=60,000,000 de·nar′i·i]. <a id="chapter18_verse25"></a><b><sup>25 </sup></b>But because he did not have the means to pay it back, his master ordered him and his <a id="page1240"></a>wife and his children and all the things he had to be sold and payment to be made. <a id="chapter18_verse26"></a><b><sup>26 </sup></b>Therefore the slave fell down and began to do obeisance to him, saying, ‘Be patient with me and I will pay back everything to you.’ <a id="chapter18_verse27"></a><b><sup>27 </sup></b>Moved to pity at this, the master of that slave let him off and canceled his debt. <a id="chapter18_verse28"></a><b><sup>28 </sup></b>But that slave went out and found one of his fellow slaves that was owing him a hundred de·nar′i·i; and, grabbing him, he began to choke him, saying, ‘Pay back whatever you owe.’ <a id="chapter18_verse29"></a><b><sup>29 </sup></b>Therefore his fellow slave fell down and began to entreat him, saying, ‘Be patient with me and I will pay you back.’ <a id="chapter18_verse30"></a><b><sup>30 </sup></b>However, he was not willing, but went off and had him thrown into prison until he should pay back what was owing. <a id="chapter18_verse31"></a><b><sup>31 </sup></b>When, therefore, his fellow slaves saw the things that had happened, they became very much grieved, and they went and made clear to their master all the things that had happened. <a id="chapter18_verse32"></a><b><sup>32 </sup></b>Then his master summoned him and said to him, ‘Wicked slave, I canceled all that debt for you, when you entreated me. <a id="chapter18_verse33"></a><b><sup>33 </sup></b>Ought you not, in turn, to have had mercy on your fellow slave, as I also had mercy on you?’ <a id="chapter18_verse34"></a><b><sup>34 </sup></b>With that his master, provoked to wrath, delivered him to the jailers, until he should pay back all that was owing. <a id="chapter18_verse35"></a><b><sup>35 </sup></b>In like manner my heavenly Father will also deal with <span class="smcap">YOU </span>if <span class="smcap">YOU </span>do not forgive each one his brother from <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>hearts.”</p>
</div>