<book>
  <p class="w_biblebookname">Matthew</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter6"></a>
    <a id="chapter6_verse1"></a>
    <span class="w_ch">
      <b>6 </b>
    </span>“Take good care not to practice <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>righteousness in front of men in order to be observed by them; otherwise <span class="smcap">YOU </span>will have no reward with <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>Father who is in the heavens. <a id="chapter6_verse2"></a><b><sup>2 </sup></b>Hence when you go making gifts of mercy, do not blow a trumpet ahead of you, just as the hypocrites do in the synagogues and in the streets, that they may be glorified by men. Truly I say to <span class="smcap">YOU</span>, They are having their reward in full. <a id="chapter6_verse3"></a><b><sup>3 </sup></b>But you, when making gifts of mercy, do not let your left hand know what your right is doing, <a id="chapter6_verse4"></a><b><sup>4 </sup></b>that your gifts of mercy may be in secret; then your Father who is looking on in secret will repay you.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter6_verse5"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>5 </sup>
    </b>“Also, when <span class="smcap">YOU </span>pray, <span class="smcap">YOU </span>must not be as the hypocrites; because they like to pray standing in the synagogues and on the corners of the broad ways to be visible to men. Truly I say to <span class="smcap">YOU</span>, They are having their reward in full. <a id="chapter6_verse6"></a><b><sup>6 </sup></b>You, however, when you pray, go into your private room and, after shutting your door, pray to your Father who is in secret; then your Father who looks on in secret will repay you. <a id="chapter6_verse7"></a><b><sup>7 </sup></b>But when praying, do not say the same things over and over again, just as the people of the nations do, for they imagine they will get a hearing for their use of many words. <a id="chapter6_verse8"></a><b><sup>8 </sup></b>So, do not make yourselves like them, for God <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>Father knows what things <span class="smcap">YOU </span>are needing before ever <span class="smcap">YOU </span>ask him.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter6_verse9"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>9 </sup>
    </b>“Y<span class="smcap">OU </span>must pray, then, this way:</p>
  <p class="sb">“‘Our Father in the heavens, let your name be sanctified. <a id="chapter6_verse10"></a><b><sup>10 </sup></b>Let your kingdom come. Let your will take place, as in heaven, also upon earth. <a id="chapter6_verse11"></a><b><sup>11 </sup></b>Give us today our bread for this day; <a id="chapter6_verse12"></a><b><sup>12 </sup></b>and forgive us our debts, as we also have forgiven our debtors. <a id="chapter6_verse13"></a><b><sup>13 </sup></b>And do not bring us into temptation, but deliver us from the wicked one.’</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter6_verse14"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>14 </sup>
    </b>“For if <span class="smcap">YOU </span>forgive men their trespasses, <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>heavenly Father will also forgive <span class="smcap">YOU</span>; <a id="chapter6_verse15"></a><b><sup>15 </sup></b>whereas if <span class="smcap">YOU </span>do not forgive men their trespasses, neither will <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>Father forgive <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>trespasses.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter6_verse16"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>16 </sup>
    </b>“When <span class="smcap">YOU </span>are fasting, stop becoming sad-faced like the hypocrites, for they disfigure their faces that they may appear to men to be fasting. Truly I say to <span class="smcap">YOU</span>, They are having their reward in full. <a id="chapter6_verse17"></a><b><sup>17 </sup></b>But you, when fasting, grease your head and wash your face, <a id="chapter6_verse18"></a><b><sup>18 </sup></b>that you may appear to be fasting, not to men, but to your Father who is in secrecy; then your Father who is looking on in secrecy will repay you.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter6_verse19"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>19 </sup>
    </b>“Stop storing up for yourselves treasures upon the earth, where moth and rust consume, and where thieves break in and steal. <a id="chapter6_verse20"></a><b><sup>20 </sup></b>Rather, store up for yourselves treasures in heaven, where neither moth nor rust consumes, and where thieves do not break in and steal. <a id="chapter6_verse21"></a><b><sup>21 </sup></b>For where your treasure is, there your heart will be also.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter6_verse22"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>22 </sup>
    </b>“The lamp of the body is the eye. If, then, your eye is simple, your whole body will be bright; <a id="chapter6_verse23"></a><b><sup>23 </sup></b>but if your eye is wicked, your whole body will be dark. If in reality the light that is in you is darkness, how great that darkness is!</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter6_verse24"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>24 </sup>
    </b>“No one can slave for two masters; for either he will hate the one and love the other, or he will stick to the one and despise the other. Y<span class="smcap">OU </span>cannot slave for God and for Riches.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="page1223"></a>
    <a id="chapter6_verse25"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>25 </sup>
    </b>“On this account I say to <span class="smcap">YOU</span>: Stop being anxious about <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>souls as to what <span class="smcap">YOU </span>will eat or what <span class="smcap">YOU </span>will drink, or about <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>bodies as to what <span class="smcap">YOU </span>will wear. Does not the soul mean more than food and the body than clothing? <a id="chapter6_verse26"></a><b><sup>26 </sup></b>Observe intently the birds of heaven, because they do not sow seed or reap or gather into storehouses; still <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>heavenly Father feeds them. Are <span class="smcap">YOU </span>not worth more than they are? <a id="chapter6_verse27"></a><b><sup>27 </sup></b>Who of <span class="smcap">YOU </span>by being anxious can add one cubit to his life span? <a id="chapter6_verse28"></a><b><sup>28 </sup></b>Also, on the matter of clothing, why are <span class="smcap">YOU </span>anxious? Take a lesson from the lilies of the field, how they are growing; they do not toil, nor do they spin; <a id="chapter6_verse29"></a><b><sup>29 </sup></b>but I say to <span class="smcap">YOU </span>that not even Sol′o·mon in all his glory was arrayed as one of these. <a id="chapter6_verse30"></a><b><sup>30 </sup></b>If, now, God thus clothes the vegetation of the field, which is here today and tomorrow is thrown into the oven, will he not much rather clothe <span class="smcap">YOU</span>, <span class="smcap">YOU </span>with little faith? <a id="chapter6_verse31"></a><b><sup>31 </sup></b>So never be anxious and say, ‘What are we to eat?’ or, ‘What are we to drink?’ or, ‘What are we to put on?’ <a id="chapter6_verse32"></a><b><sup>32 </sup></b>For all these are the things the nations are eagerly pursuing. For <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>heavenly Father knows <span class="smcap">YOU </span>need all these things.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter6_verse33"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>33 </sup>
    </b>“Keep on, then, seeking first the kingdom and his righteousness, and all these other things will be added to <span class="smcap">YOU</span>. <a id="chapter6_verse34"></a><b><sup>34 </sup></b>So, never be anxious about the next day, for the next day will have its own anxieties. Sufficient for each day is its own badness.</p>
</book>