<book>
  <p class="w_biblebookname">Luke</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter21"></a>
    <a id="chapter21_verse1"></a>
    <span class="w_ch">
      <b>21 </b>
    </span>Now as he looked up he saw the rich dropping their gifts into the treasury chests. <a id="chapter21_verse2"></a><b><sup>2 </sup></b>Then he saw a certain needy widow drop two small coins of very little value there, <a id="chapter21_verse3"></a><b><sup>3 </sup></b>and he said: “I tell <span class="smcap">YOU </span>truthfully, This widow, although poor, dropped in more than they all did. <a id="chapter21_verse4"></a><b><sup>4 </sup></b>For all these dropped in gifts out of their surplus, but this woman out of her want dropped in all the means of living she had.”</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter21_verse5"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>5 </sup>
    </b>Later, as certain ones were speaking concerning the temple, how it was adorned with fine stones and dedicated things, <a id="chapter21_verse6"></a><b><sup>6 </sup></b>he said: “As for these things that <span class="smcap">YOU </span>are beholding, the days will come in which not a stone upon a stone will be left here and not be thrown down.” <a id="chapter21_verse7"></a><b><sup>7 </sup></b>Then they questioned him, saying: “Teacher, when will these things actually be, and what will be the sign when these things are destined to occur?” <a id="chapter21_verse8"></a><b><sup>8 </sup></b>He said: “Look out that <span class="smcap">YOU </span>are not misled; for many will come on the basis of my name, saying, ‘I am he,’ and, ‘The due time has approached.’ Do not go after them. <a id="chapter21_verse9"></a><b><sup>9 </sup></b>Furthermore, when <span class="smcap">YOU </span>hear of wars and disorders, do not be terrified. For these things must occur first, but the end does not occur immediately.”</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter21_verse10"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>10 </sup>
    </b>Then he went on to say to them: “Nation will rise against <a id="page1320"></a>nation, and kingdom against kingdom; <a id="chapter21_verse11"></a><b><sup>11 </sup></b>and there will be great earthquakes, and in one place after another pestilences and food shortages; and there will be fearful sights and from heaven great signs.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter21_verse12"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>12 </sup>
    </b>“But before all these things people will lay their hands upon <span class="smcap">YOU </span>and persecute <span class="smcap">YOU</span>, delivering <span class="smcap">YOU </span>up to the synagogues and prisons, <span class="smcap">YOU </span>being haled before kings and governors for the sake of my name. <a id="chapter21_verse13"></a><b><sup>13 </sup></b>It will turn out to <span class="smcap">YOU </span>for a witness. <a id="chapter21_verse14"></a><b><sup>14 </sup></b>Therefore settle it in <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>hearts not to rehearse beforehand how to make <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>defense, <a id="chapter21_verse15"></a><b><sup>15 </sup></b>for I will give <span class="smcap">YOU </span>a mouth and wisdom, which all <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>opposers together will not be able to resist or dispute. <a id="chapter21_verse16"></a><b><sup>16 </sup></b>Moreover, <span class="smcap">YOU </span>will be delivered up even by parents and brothers and relatives and friends, and they will put some of <span class="smcap">YOU </span>to death; <a id="chapter21_verse17"></a><b><sup>17 </sup></b>and <span class="smcap">YOU </span>will be objects of hatred by all people because of my name. <a id="chapter21_verse18"></a><b><sup>18 </sup></b>And yet not a hair of <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>heads will by any means perish. <a id="chapter21_verse19"></a><b><sup>19 </sup></b>By endurance on <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>part <span class="smcap">YOU </span>will acquire <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>souls.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter21_verse20"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>20 </sup>
    </b>“Furthermore, when <span class="smcap">YOU </span>see Jerusalem surrounded by encamped armies, then know that the desolating of her has drawn near. <a id="chapter21_verse21"></a><b><sup>21 </sup></b>Then let those in Ju·de′a begin fleeing to the mountains, and let those in the midst of her withdraw, and let those in the country places not enter into her; <a id="chapter21_verse22"></a><b><sup>22 </sup></b>because these are days for meting out justice, that all the things written may be fulfilled. <a id="chapter21_verse23"></a><b><sup>23 </sup></b>Woe to the pregnant women and the ones suckling a baby in those days! For there will be great necessity upon the land and wrath on this people; <a id="chapter21_verse24"></a><b><sup>24 </sup></b>and they will fall by the edge of the sword and be led captive into all the nations; and Jerusalem will be trampled on by the nations, until the appointed times of the nations are fulfilled.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter21_verse25"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>25 </sup>
    </b>“Also, there will be signs in sun and moon and stars, and on the earth anguish of nations, not knowing the way out because of the roaring of the sea and its agitation, <a id="chapter21_verse26"></a><b><sup>26 </sup></b>while men become faint out of fear and expectation of the things coming upon the inhabited earth; for the powers of the heavens will be shaken. <a id="chapter21_verse27"></a><b><sup>27 </sup></b>And then they will see the Son of man coming in a cloud with power and great glory. <a id="chapter21_verse28"></a><b><sup>28 </sup></b>But as these things start to occur, raise yourselves erect and lift <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>heads up, because <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>deliverance is getting near.”</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter21_verse29"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>29 </sup>
    </b>With that he spoke an illustration to them: “Note the fig tree and all the other trees: <a id="chapter21_verse30"></a><b><sup>30 </sup></b>When they are already in the bud, by observing it <span class="smcap">YOU </span>know for yourselves that now the summer is near. <a id="chapter21_verse31"></a><b><sup>31 </sup></b>In this way <span class="smcap">YOU </span>also, when <span class="smcap">YOU </span>see these things occurring, know that the kingdom of God is near. <a id="chapter21_verse32"></a><b><sup>32 </sup></b>Truly I say to <span class="smcap">YOU</span>, This generation will by no means pass away until all things occur. <a id="chapter21_verse33"></a><b><sup>33 </sup></b>Heaven and earth will pass away, but my words will by no means pass away.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter21_verse34"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>34 </sup>
    </b>“But pay attention to yourselves that <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>hearts never become weighed down with overeating and heavy drinking and anxieties of life, and suddenly that day be instantly upon <span class="smcap">YOU </span><a id="chapter21_verse35"></a><b><sup>35 </sup></b>as a snare. For it will come in upon all those dwelling upon the face of all the earth. <a id="chapter21_verse36"></a><b><sup>36 </sup></b>Keep awake, then, all the time making supplication that <span class="smcap">YOU </span>may succeed in escaping all these things that are destined to occur, and in standing before the Son of man.”</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter21_verse37"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>37 </sup>
    </b>So by day he would be teaching in the temple, but by night he would go out and lodge on the mountain called the <a id="page1321"></a>Mount of Olives. <a id="chapter21_verse38"></a><b><sup>38 </sup></b>And all the people would come early in the day to him in the temple to hear him.</p>
</book>