<div>
  <p class="w_biblebookname">Luke</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter24"></a>
    <a id="chapter24_verse1"></a>
    <span class="w_ch">
      <b>24 </b>
    </span>On the first day of the week, however, they went very early to the tomb, bearing the spices they had prepared. <a id="chapter24_verse2"></a><b><sup>2 </sup></b>But they found the stone rolled away from the memorial tomb, <a id="chapter24_verse3"></a><b><sup>3 </sup></b>and when they entered they did not find the body of the Lord Jesus. <a id="chapter24_verse4"></a><b><sup>4 </sup></b>While they were in perplexity over this, look! two men in flashing clothing stood by them. <a id="chapter24_verse5"></a><b><sup>5 </sup></b>As the women became frightened and kept their faces turned to the ground, the men said to them: “Why are <span class="smcap">YOU </span>looking for the living One among the dead? <a id="chapter24_verse6"></a><b><sup>6 </sup></b>[[He is not here, but has been raised up.]] Recall how he spoke to <span class="smcap">YOU </span>while he was yet in Gal′i·lee, <a id="chapter24_verse7"></a><b><sup>7 </sup></b>saying that the Son of man must be delivered into the hands of sinful men and be impaled and yet on the third day rise.” <a id="chapter24_verse8"></a><b><sup>8 </sup></b>So they called his sayings to mind, <a id="chapter24_verse9"></a><b><sup>9 </sup></b>and they returned from the memorial tomb and reported all these things to the eleven and to all the rest. <a id="chapter24_verse10"></a><b><sup>10 </sup></b>They were the Mag′da·lene Mary, and Jo·an′na, and Mary the mother of James. Also, the rest of the women with them were telling the apostles these things. <a id="chapter24_verse11"></a><b><sup>11 </sup></b>However, these sayings appeared as nonsense to them and they would not believe the women.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter24_verse12"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>12 </sup>
    </b>[[But Peter rose and ran to the memorial tomb, and, stooping forward, he beheld the bandages alone. So he went off, wondering within himself at what had occurred.]]</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter24_verse13"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>13 </sup>
    </b>But, look! on that very day two of them were journeying to a village about seven miles distant from Jerusalem and named Em·ma′us, <a id="chapter24_verse14"></a><b><sup>14 </sup></b>and they were conversing with each other over <a id="page1326"></a>all these things that had come about.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter24_verse15"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>15 </sup>
    </b>Now as they were conversing and discussing, Jesus himself approached and began walking with them; <a id="chapter24_verse16"></a><b><sup>16 </sup></b>but their eyes were kept from recognizing him. <a id="chapter24_verse17"></a><b><sup>17 </sup></b>He said to them: “What are these matters that <span class="smcap">YOU </span>are debating between yourselves as <span class="smcap">YOU </span>walk along?” And they stood still with sad faces. <a id="chapter24_verse18"></a><b><sup>18 </sup></b>In answer the one named Cle′o·pas said to him: “Are you dwelling as an alien by yourself in Jerusalem and so do not know the things that have occurred in her in these days?” <a id="chapter24_verse19"></a><b><sup>19 </sup></b>And he said to them: “What things?” They said to him: “The things concerning Jesus the Naz·a·rene′, who became a prophet powerful in work and word before God and all the people; <a id="chapter24_verse20"></a><b><sup>20 </sup></b>and how our chief priests and rulers handed him over to the sentence of death and impaled him. <a id="chapter24_verse21"></a><b><sup>21 </sup></b>But we were hoping that this man was the one destined to deliver Israel; yes, and besides all these things, this makes the third day since these things occurred. <a id="chapter24_verse22"></a><b><sup>22 </sup></b>Moreover, certain women from among us also astonished us, because they had been early to the memorial tomb <a id="chapter24_verse23"></a><b><sup>23 </sup></b>but did not find his body and they came saying they had also seen a supernatural sight of angels, who said he is alive. <a id="chapter24_verse24"></a><b><sup>24 </sup></b>Further, some of those with us went off to the memorial tomb; and they found it so, just as the women had said, but they did not see him.”</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter24_verse25"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>25 </sup>
    </b>So he said to them: “O senseless ones and slow in heart to believe on all the things the prophets spoke! <a id="chapter24_verse26"></a><b><sup>26 </sup></b>Was it not necessary for the Christ to suffer these things and to enter into his glory?” <a id="chapter24_verse27"></a><b><sup>27 </sup></b>And commencing at Moses and all the Prophets he interpreted to them things pertaining to himself in all the Scriptures.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter24_verse28"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>28 </sup>
    </b>Finally they got close to the village where they were journeying, and he made as if he was journeying on farther. <a id="chapter24_verse29"></a><b><sup>29 </sup></b>But they used pressure upon him, saying: “Stay with us, because it is toward evening and the day has already declined.” With that he went in to stay with them. <a id="chapter24_verse30"></a><b><sup>30 </sup></b>And as he was reclining with them at the meal he took the loaf, blessed it, broke it and began to hand it to them. <a id="chapter24_verse31"></a><b><sup>31 </sup></b>At that their eyes were fully opened and they recognized him; and he disappeared from them. <a id="chapter24_verse32"></a><b><sup>32 </sup></b>And they said to each other: “Were not our hearts burning as he was speaking to us on the road, as he was fully opening up the Scriptures to us?” <a id="chapter24_verse33"></a><b><sup>33 </sup></b>And in that very hour they rose and returned to Jerusalem, and they found the eleven and those with them assembled together, <a id="chapter24_verse34"></a><b><sup>34 </sup></b>saying: “For a fact the Lord was raised up and he appeared to Simon!” <a id="chapter24_verse35"></a><b><sup>35 </sup></b>Now they themselves related the events on the road and how he became known to them by the breaking of the loaf.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter24_verse36"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>36 </sup>
    </b>While they were speaking of these things he himself stood in their midst [[and said to them: “May <span class="smcap">YOU </span>have peace.”]] <a id="chapter24_verse37"></a><b><sup>37 </sup></b>But because they were terrified, and had become frightened, they were imagining they beheld a spirit. <a id="chapter24_verse38"></a><b><sup>38 </sup></b>So he said to them: “Why are <span class="smcap">YOU </span>troubled, and why is it doubts come up in <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>hearts? <a id="chapter24_verse39"></a><b><sup>39 </sup></b>See my hands and my feet, that it is I myself; feel me and see, because a spirit does not have flesh and bones just as <span class="smcap">YOU </span>behold that I have.” <a id="chapter24_verse40"></a><b><sup>40 </sup></b>[[And as he said this he showed them his hands and his feet.]] <a id="chapter24_verse41"></a><b><sup>41 </sup></b>But while they were still not believing for sheer joy and were wondering, he said to them: “Do <span class="smcap">YOU </span>have something there to eat?” <a id="chapter24_verse42"></a><b><sup>42 </sup></b>And they <a id="page1327"></a>handed him a piece of broiled fish; <a id="chapter24_verse43"></a><b><sup>43 </sup></b>and he took it and ate it before their eyes.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter24_verse44"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>44 </sup>
    </b>He now said to them: “These are my words which I spoke to <span class="smcap">YOU </span>while I was yet with <span class="smcap">YOU</span>, that all the things written in the law of Moses and in the Prophets and Psalms about me must be fulfilled.” <a id="chapter24_verse45"></a><b><sup>45 </sup></b>Then he opened up their minds fully to grasp the meaning of the Scriptures, <a id="chapter24_verse46"></a><b><sup>46 </sup></b>and he said to them: “In this way it is written that the Christ would suffer and rise from among the dead on the third day, <a id="chapter24_verse47"></a><b><sup>47 </sup></b>and on the basis of his name repentance for forgiveness of sins would be preached in all the nations—starting out from Jerusalem, <a id="chapter24_verse48"></a><b><sup>48 </sup></b><span class="smcap">YOU </span>are to be witnesses of these things. <a id="chapter24_verse49"></a><b><sup>49 </sup></b>And, look! I am sending forth upon <span class="smcap">YOU </span>that which is promised by my Father. Y<span class="smcap">OU</span>, though, abide in the city until <span class="smcap">YOU </span>become clothed with power from on high.”</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter24_verse50"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>50 </sup>
    </b>But he led them out as far as Beth′a·ny, and he lifted up his hands and blessed them. <a id="chapter24_verse51"></a><b><sup>51 </sup></b>As he was blessing them he was parted from them and began to be borne up to heaven. <a id="chapter24_verse52"></a><b><sup>52 </sup></b>And they did obeisance to him and returned to Jerusalem with great joy. <a id="chapter24_verse53"></a><b><sup>53 </sup></b>And they were continually in the temple blessing God.</p>
</div>