<book>
  <p class="w_biblebookname">John</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter15"></a>
    <a id="chapter15_verse1"></a>
    <span class="w_ch">
      <b>15 </b>
    </span>“I am the true vine, and my Father is the cultivator. <a id="chapter15_verse2"></a><b><sup>2 </sup></b>Every branch in me not bearing fruit he takes away, and every one bearing fruit he cleans, that it may bear more fruit. <a id="chapter15_verse3"></a><b><sup>3 </sup></b>Y<span class="smcap">OU </span>are already clean because of the word that I have spoken to <span class="smcap">YOU</span>. <a id="chapter15_verse4"></a><b><sup>4 </sup></b>Remain in union with me, and I in union with <span class="smcap">YOU</span>. Just as the branch cannot bear fruit of itself unless it remains in the vine, in the same way neither can <span class="smcap">YOU</span>, unless <span class="smcap">YOU </span>remain in union with me. <a id="chapter15_verse5"></a><b><sup>5 </sup></b>I am the vine, <span class="smcap">YOU </span>are the branches. He that remains in union with me, and I in union with him, this one bears much fruit; because apart from me <span class="smcap">YOU </span>can do nothing at all. <a id="chapter15_verse6"></a><b><sup>6 </sup></b>If anyone does not remain in union with me, he is cast out as a branch and is dried up; and men gather those branches up and pitch them into the fire and they are burned. <a id="chapter15_verse7"></a><b><sup>7 </sup></b>If <span class="smcap">YOU </span>remain in union with me and my sayings remain in <span class="smcap">YOU</span>, ask whatever <span class="smcap">YOU </span>wish and it will take place for <span class="smcap">YOU</span>. <a id="chapter15_verse8"></a><b><sup>8 </sup></b>My Father is glorified in this, that <span class="smcap">YOU </span>keep bearing much fruit and prove yourselves my disciples. <a id="chapter15_verse9"></a><b><sup>9 </sup></b>Just as the Father has loved me and I have loved <span class="smcap">YOU</span>, remain in my love. <a id="chapter15_verse10"></a><b><sup>10 </sup></b>If <span class="smcap">YOU </span>observe my commandments, <span class="smcap">YOU </span>will remain in my love, just as I have observed the commandments of the Father and remain in his love.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter15_verse11"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>11 </sup>
    </b>“These things I have spoken to <span class="smcap">YOU</span>, that my joy may be in <span class="smcap">YOU </span>and <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>joy may be made full. <a id="chapter15_verse12"></a><b><sup>12 </sup></b>This is my commandment, that <span class="smcap">YOU </span>love one another just as I have loved <span class="smcap">YOU</span>. <a id="chapter15_verse13"></a><b><sup>13 </sup></b>No one has love greater than this, that someone should surrender his soul in behalf of his friends. <a id="chapter15_verse14"></a><b><sup>14 </sup></b>Y<span class="smcap">OU </span>are my friends if <span class="smcap">YOU </span>do what I am commanding <span class="smcap">YOU</span>. <a id="chapter15_verse15"></a><b><sup>15 </sup></b>I no longer call <span class="smcap">YOU </span>slaves, because a slave does not know what his master does. But I have called <span class="smcap">YOU </span>friends, because all the things I have heard from my Father I have made known to <span class="smcap">YOU</span>. <a id="chapter15_verse16"></a><b><sup>16 </sup></b>Y<span class="smcap">OU </span>did not choose me, but I chose <span class="smcap">YOU</span>, and I appointed <span class="smcap">YOU </span>to go on and keep bearing fruit and that <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>fruit should remain; in order that no matter what <span class="smcap">YOU </span>ask the Father in my name he might give it to <span class="smcap">YOU</span>.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter15_verse17"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>17 </sup>
    </b>“These things I command <span class="smcap">YOU</span>, that <span class="smcap">YOU </span>love one another. <a id="chapter15_verse18"></a><b><sup>18 </sup></b>If the world hates <span class="smcap">YOU</span>, <span class="smcap">YOU </span>know that it has hated me before it hated <span class="smcap">YOU</span>. <a id="chapter15_verse19"></a><b><sup>19 </sup></b>If <span class="smcap">YOU </span>were part of the world, the world would be fond of what is its own. Now because <span class="smcap">YOU </span>are no part of the world, but I have chosen <span class="smcap">YOU </span>out of the world, on this account the world hates <span class="smcap">YOU</span>. <a id="chapter15_verse20"></a><b><sup>20 </sup></b>Bear in mind the word I said to <span class="smcap">YOU</span>, A slave is not greater than his master. If they have persecuted me, they will persecute <span class="smcap">YOU </span>also; if they have observed my word, they will observe <span class="smcap">YOURS </span>also. <a id="chapter15_verse21"></a><b><sup>21 </sup></b>But they will do all these things against <span class="smcap">YOU </span>on account of my name, because <a id="page1352"></a>they do not know him that sent me. <a id="chapter15_verse22"></a><b><sup>22 </sup></b>If I had not come and spoken to them, they would have no sin; but now they have no excuse for their sin. <a id="chapter15_verse23"></a><b><sup>23 </sup></b>He that hates me hates also my Father. <a id="chapter15_verse24"></a><b><sup>24 </sup></b>If I had not done among them the works that no one else did, they would have no sin; but now they have both seen and hated me as well as my Father. <a id="chapter15_verse25"></a><b><sup>25 </sup></b>But it is that the word written in their Law may be fulfilled, ‘They hated me without cause.’ <a id="chapter15_verse26"></a><b><sup>26 </sup></b>When the helper arrives that I will send <span class="smcap">YOU </span>from the Father, the spirit of the truth, which proceeds from the Father, that one will bear witness about me; <a id="chapter15_verse27"></a><b><sup>27 </sup></b>and <span class="smcap">YOU</span>, in turn, are to bear witness, because <span class="smcap">YOU </span>have been with me from when I began.</p>
</book>