<book>
  <p class="w_biblebookname">Romans</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter12"></a>
    <a id="chapter12_verse1"></a>
    <span class="w_ch">
      <b>12 </b>
    </span>Consequently I entreat <span class="smcap">YOU </span>by the compassions of God, brothers, to present <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>bodies a sacrifice living, holy, acceptable to God, a sacred service with <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>power of reason. <a id="chapter12_verse2"></a><b><sup>2 </sup></b>And quit being fashioned after this system of things, but be transformed by making <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>mind over, that <span class="smcap">YOU </span>may prove to yourselves the good and acceptable and perfect will of God.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter12_verse3"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>3 </sup>
    </b>For through the undeserved kindness given to me I tell everyone there among <span class="smcap">YOU </span>not to think more of himself than it is necessary to think; but to think so as to have a sound mind, each one as God has distributed to him a measure of faith. <a id="chapter12_verse4"></a><b><sup>4 </sup></b>For just as we have in one body many members, but the members do not all have the same function, <a id="chapter12_verse5"></a><b><sup>5 </sup></b>so we, although many, are one body in union with Christ, but members belonging individually to one another. <a id="chapter12_verse6"></a><b><sup>6 </sup></b>Since, then, we have gifts differing according to the undeserved kindness given to us, whether prophecy, let us prophesy according to the faith proportioned to us; <a id="chapter12_verse7"></a><b><sup>7 </sup></b>or a ministry, let us be at this ministry; or he that teaches, let him be at his teaching; <a id="chapter12_verse8"></a><b><sup>8 </sup></b>or he that exhorts, let him be at his exhortation; he that distributes, let him do it with liberality; he that presides, let him do it in real earnest; he that shows mercy, let him do it with cheerfulness.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter12_verse9"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>9 </sup>
    </b>Let <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>love be without hypocrisy. Abhor what is wicked, cling to what is good. <a id="chapter12_verse10"></a><b><sup>10 </sup></b>In brotherly love have tender affection for one another. In showing honor to one another take the lead. <a id="chapter12_verse11"></a><b><sup>11 </sup></b>Do not loiter at <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>business. Be aglow with the spirit. Slave for Jehovah. <a id="chapter12_verse12"></a><b><sup>12 </sup></b>Rejoice in the hope. Endure under tribulation. Persevere in prayer. <a id="chapter12_verse13"></a><b><sup>13 </sup></b>Share with the holy ones according to their needs. Follow the course of hospitality. <a id="chapter12_verse14"></a><b><sup>14 </sup></b>Keep on blessing those who persecute; be blessing and do not be cursing. <a id="chapter12_verse15"></a><b><sup>15 </sup></b>Rejoice with people who rejoice; weep with people who weep. <a id="chapter12_verse16"></a><b><sup>16 </sup></b>Be minded the same way toward others as to yourselves; do not be minding lofty things, but be led along with the lowly things. Do not become discreet in <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>own eyes.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter12_verse17"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>17 </sup>
    </b>Return evil for evil to no one. Provide fine things in the sight of all men. <a id="chapter12_verse18"></a><b><sup>18 </sup></b>If possible, as far as it depends upon <span class="smcap">YOU</span>, be peaceable with all men. <a id="chapter12_verse19"></a><b><sup>19 </sup></b>Do not avenge yourselves, beloved, but yield place to the wrath; for it is written: “Vengeance is mine; I will repay, says Jehovah.” <a id="chapter12_verse20"></a><b><sup>20 </sup></b>But, “if your enemy is hungry, feed him; if he is thirsty, give him something to drink; for by doing this you will heap fiery coals upon his head.” <a id="chapter12_verse21"></a><b><sup>21 </sup></b>Do not let yourself be conquered by the evil, but keep conquering the evil with the good.</p>
</book>