<book>
  <p class="w_biblebookname">Romans</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="page1422"></a>
    <a id="chapter16"></a>
    <a id="chapter16_verse1"></a>
    <span class="w_ch">
      <b>16 </b>
    </span>I recommend to <span class="smcap">YOU </span>Phoe′be our sister, who is a minister of the congregation that is in Cen′chre·ae, <a id="chapter16_verse2"></a><b><sup>2 </sup></b>that <span class="smcap">YOU </span>may welcome her in the Lord in a way worthy of the holy ones, and that <span class="smcap">YOU </span>may assist her in any matter where she may need <span class="smcap">YOU</span>, for she herself also proved to be a defender of many, yes, of me myself.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter16_verse3"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>3 </sup>
    </b>Give my greetings to Pris′ca and Aq′ui·la my fellow workers in Christ Jesus, <a id="chapter16_verse4"></a><b><sup>4 </sup></b>who have risked their own necks for my soul, to whom not only I but also all the congregations of the nations render thanks; <a id="chapter16_verse5"></a><b><sup>5 </sup></b>and greet the congregation that is in their house. Greet my beloved E·pae′ne·tus, who is a firstfruits of Asia for Christ. <a id="chapter16_verse6"></a><b><sup>6 </sup></b>Greet Mary, who has performed many labors for <span class="smcap">YOU</span>. <a id="chapter16_verse7"></a><b><sup>7 </sup></b>Greet An·dron′i·cus and Ju′ni·as my relatives and my fellow captives, who are men of note among the apostles and who have been in union with Christ longer than I have.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter16_verse8"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>8 </sup>
    </b>Give my greetings to Am·pli·a′tus my beloved in the Lord. <a id="chapter16_verse9"></a><b><sup>9 </sup></b>Greet Ur·ba′nus our fellow worker in Christ, and my beloved Sta′chys. <a id="chapter16_verse10"></a><b><sup>10 </sup></b>Greet A·pel′les, the approved one in Christ. Greet those from the household of A·ris·tob′u·lus. <a id="chapter16_verse11"></a><b><sup>11 </sup></b>Greet He·ro′di·on my relative. Greet those from the household of Nar·cis′sus who are in the Lord. <a id="chapter16_verse12"></a><b><sup>12 </sup></b>Greet Try·phae′na and Try·pho′sa, women who are working hard in the Lord. Greet Per′sis our beloved one, for she performed many labors in the Lord. <a id="chapter16_verse13"></a><b><sup>13 </sup></b>Greet Ru′fus the chosen one in the Lord, and his mother and mine. <a id="chapter16_verse14"></a><b><sup>14 </sup></b>Greet A·syn′cri·tus, Phle′gon, Her′mes, Pat′ro·bas, Her′mas, and the brothers with them. <a id="chapter16_verse15"></a><b><sup>15 </sup></b>Greet Phi·lol′o·gus and Julia, Ne′reus and his sister, and O·lym′pas, and all the holy ones with them. <a id="chapter16_verse16"></a><b><sup>16 </sup></b>Greet one another with a holy kiss. All the congregations of the Christ greet <span class="smcap">YOU</span>.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter16_verse17"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>17 </sup>
    </b>Now I exhort <span class="smcap">YOU</span>, brothers, to keep <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>eye on those who cause divisions and occasions for stumbling contrary to the teaching that <span class="smcap">YOU </span>have learned, and avoid them. <a id="chapter16_verse18"></a><b><sup>18 </sup></b>For men of that sort are slaves, not of our Lord Christ, but of their own bellies; and by smooth talk and complimentary speech they seduce the hearts of guileless ones. <a id="chapter16_verse19"></a><b><sup>19 </sup></b>For <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>obedience has come to the notice of all. I therefore rejoice over <span class="smcap">YOU</span>. But I want <span class="smcap">YOU </span>to be wise as to what is good, but innocent as to what is evil. <a id="chapter16_verse20"></a><b><sup>20 </sup></b>For his part, the God who gives peace will crush Satan under <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>feet shortly. May the undeserved kindness of our Lord Jesus be with <span class="smcap">YOU</span>.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter16_verse21"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>21 </sup>
    </b>Timothy my fellow worker greets <span class="smcap">YOU</span>, and so do Lucius and Ja′son and So·sip′a·ter my relatives.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter16_verse22"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>22 </sup>
    </b>I, Ter′tius, who have done the writing of this letter, greet <span class="smcap">YOU </span>in the Lord.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter16_verse23"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>23 </sup>
    </b>Ga′ius, my host and that of all the congregation, greets <span class="smcap">YOU</span>. E·ras′tus the city steward greets <span class="smcap">YOU</span>, and so does Quar′tus his brother. <a id="chapter16_verse24"></a><b><sup>24 </sup></b>——</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter16_verse25"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>25 </sup>
    </b>Now to him who can make <span class="smcap">YOU </span>firm in accord with the good news I declare and the preaching of Jesus Christ, according to the revelation of the sacred secret which has been kept in silence for long-lasting times <a id="chapter16_verse26"></a><b><sup>26 </sup></b>but has now been made manifest and has been made known through the prophetic scriptures among all the nations in accord with the command of the everlasting God to promote obedience by faith; <a id="chapter16_verse27"></a><b><sup>27 </sup></b>to God, wise alone, be the glory through Jesus Christ forever. Amen.</p>
</book>