<book>
  <p class="w_biblebookname">1 Corinthians</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter6"></a>
    <a id="chapter6_verse1"></a>
    <span class="w_ch">
      <b>6 </b>
    </span>Does anyone of <span class="smcap">YOU </span>that has a case against the other dare to go to court before unrighteous men, and not before the holy ones? <a id="chapter6_verse2"></a><b><sup>2 </sup></b>Or do <span class="smcap">YOU </span>not know that the holy ones will judge the world? And if the world is to be judged by <span class="smcap">YOU</span>, are <span class="smcap">YOU </span>unfit to try very trivial matters? <a id="chapter6_verse3"></a><b><sup>3 </sup></b>Do <span class="smcap">YOU </span>not know that we shall judge angels? Why, then, not matters of this life? <a id="chapter6_verse4"></a><b><sup>4 </sup></b>If, then, <span class="smcap">YOU </span>do have matters of this life to be tried, is it the men looked down upon in the congregation that <span class="smcap">YOU </span>put in as judges? <a id="chapter6_verse5"></a><b><sup>5 </sup></b>I am speaking to move <span class="smcap">YOU </span>to shame. Is it true that there is not one wise man among <span class="smcap">YOU </span>that will be able to judge between his brothers, <a id="chapter6_verse6"></a><b><sup>6 </sup></b>but brother goes to court with brother, and that before unbelievers?</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter6_verse7"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>7 </sup>
    </b>Really, then, it means altogether a defeat for <span class="smcap">YOU </span>that <span class="smcap">YOU </span>are having lawsuits with one another. Why do <span class="smcap">YOU </span>not rather let yourselves be wronged? Why do <span class="smcap">YOU </span>not rather let yourselves be defrauded? <a id="chapter6_verse8"></a><b><sup>8 </sup></b>To the contrary, <span class="smcap">YOU </span>wrong and defraud, and <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>brothers at that.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter6_verse9"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>9 </sup>
    </b>What! Do <span class="smcap">YOU </span>not know that unrighteous persons will not inherit God’s kingdom? Do not be misled. Neither fornicators, nor idolaters, nor adulterers, nor men kept for unnatural purposes, nor men who lie with men, <a id="chapter6_verse10"></a><b><sup>10 </sup></b>nor thieves, nor greedy persons, nor drunkards, nor revilers, nor extortioners will inherit God’s kingdom. <a id="chapter6_verse11"></a><b><sup>11 </sup></b>And yet that is what some of <span class="smcap">YOU </span>were. But <span class="smcap">YOU </span>have been washed clean, but <span class="smcap">YOU </span>have been sanctified, but <span class="smcap">YOU </span>have been declared righteous in the name of our Lord Jesus Christ and with the spirit of our God.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter6_verse12"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>12 </sup>
    </b>All things are lawful for me; but not all things are advantageous. All things are lawful for me; but I will not let myself be brought under authority by anything. <a id="chapter6_verse13"></a><b><sup>13 </sup></b>Foods for the belly, and the belly for foods; but God will bring both it and them to nothing. Now the body is not for fornication, but for the Lord; and the Lord is for the body. <a id="chapter6_verse14"></a><b><sup>14 </sup></b>But God both raised up the Lord and will raise us up out of death through his power.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="page1428"></a>
    <a id="chapter6_verse15"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>15 </sup>
    </b>Do <span class="smcap">YOU </span>not know that <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>bodies are members of Christ? Shall I, then, take the members of the Christ away and make them members of a harlot? Never may that happen! <a id="chapter6_verse16"></a><b><sup>16 </sup></b>What! Do <span class="smcap">YOU </span>not know that he who is joined to a harlot is one body? For, “The two,” says he, “will be one flesh.” <a id="chapter6_verse17"></a><b><sup>17 </sup></b>But he who is joined to the Lord is one spirit. <a id="chapter6_verse18"></a><b><sup>18 </sup></b>Flee from fornication. Every other sin that a man may commit is outside his body, but he that practices fornication is sinning against his own body. <a id="chapter6_verse19"></a><b><sup>19 </sup></b>What! Do <span class="smcap">YOU </span>not know that the body of <span class="smcap">YOU </span>people is the temple of the holy spirit within <span class="smcap">YOU</span>, which <span class="smcap">YOU </span>have from God? Also, <span class="smcap">YOU </span>do not belong to yourselves, <a id="chapter6_verse20"></a><b><sup>20 </sup></b>for <span class="smcap">YOU </span>were bought with a price. By all means, glorify God in the body of <span class="smcap">YOU </span>people.</p>
</book>