<book>
  <p class="w_biblebookname">1 Corinthians</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter3"></a>
    <a id="chapter3_verse1"></a>
    <span class="w_ch">
      <b>3 </b>
    </span>And so, brothers, I was not able to speak to <span class="smcap">YOU </span>as to spiritual men, but as to fleshly men, as to babes in Christ. <a id="chapter3_verse2"></a><b><sup>2 </sup></b>I fed <span class="smcap">YOU </span>milk, not something to eat, for <span class="smcap">YOU </span>were not yet strong enough. In fact, neither are <span class="smcap">YOU </span>strong enough now, <a id="chapter3_verse3"></a><b><sup>3 </sup></b>for <span class="smcap">YOU </span>are yet fleshly. For whereas there are jealousy and strife among <span class="smcap">YOU</span>, are <span class="smcap">YOU </span>not fleshly and are <span class="smcap">YOU </span>not walking as men do? <a id="chapter3_verse4"></a><b><sup>4 </sup></b>For when one says: “I belong to Paul,” but another says: “I to A·pol′los,” are <span class="smcap">YOU </span>not simply men?</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter3_verse5"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>5 </sup>
    </b>What, then, is A·pol′los? Yes, what is Paul? Ministers through whom <span class="smcap">YOU </span>became believers, even as the Lord granted each one. <a id="chapter3_verse6"></a><b><sup>6 </sup></b>I planted, A·pol′los watered, but God kept making it grow; <a id="chapter3_verse7"></a><b><sup>7 </sup></b>so that neither is he that plants anything nor is he that waters, but God who makes it grow. <a id="chapter3_verse8"></a><b><sup>8 </sup></b>Now he that plants and he that waters are one, but each person will receive his own reward according to his own labor. <a id="chapter3_verse9"></a><b><sup>9 </sup></b>For we are God’s fellow workers. Y<span class="smcap">OU </span>people are God’s field under cultivation, God’s building.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter3_verse10"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>10 </sup>
    </b>According to the undeserved kindness of God that was given to me, as a wise director of works I laid a foundation, but someone else is building on it. But let each one keep watching how he is building on it. <a id="chapter3_verse11"></a><b><sup>11 </sup></b>For no man can lay any other foundation than what is laid, which is Jesus Christ. <a id="chapter3_verse12"></a><b><sup>12 </sup></b>Now if anyone builds on the foundation gold, silver, precious stones, wood materials, hay, stubble, <a id="chapter3_verse13"></a><b><sup>13 </sup></b>each one’s work will become manifest, for the day will show it up, because it will be revealed by means of fire; and the fire itself will prove what sort of work each one’s is. <a id="chapter3_verse14"></a><b><sup>14 </sup></b>If anyone’s work that he has built on it remains, he will receive a reward; <a id="chapter3_verse15"></a><b><sup>15 </sup></b>if anyone’s work is burned up, he will suffer loss, but he himself will be saved; yet, if so, it will be as through fire.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter3_verse16"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>16 </sup>
    </b>Do <span class="smcap">YOU </span>not know that <span class="smcap">YOU </span>people are God’s temple, and that the spirit of God dwells in <span class="smcap">YOU</span>? <a id="chapter3_verse17"></a><b><sup>17 </sup></b>If anyone destroys the temple of God, God will destroy him; for the temple of God is holy, which temple <span class="smcap">YOU </span>people are.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter3_verse18"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>18 </sup>
    </b>Let no one be seducing himself: If anyone among <span class="smcap">YOU </span>thinks he is wise in this system of things, let him become a fool, that he may become wise. <a id="chapter3_verse19"></a><b><sup>19 </sup></b>For the wisdom of this world is foolishness with God; for it is written: “He catches the wise in their own cunning.” <a id="chapter3_verse20"></a><b><sup>20 </sup></b>And again: “Jehovah knows that the reasonings of the wise men are futile.” <a id="chapter3_verse21"></a><b><sup>21 </sup></b>Hence let no one be boasting in men; for all things belong to <span class="smcap">YOU</span>, <a id="chapter3_verse22"></a><b><sup>22 </sup></b>whether Paul or A·pol′los or Ce′phas or the world or life or death or things now here or things to come, all things belong to <span class="smcap">YOU</span>; <a id="chapter3_verse23"></a><b><sup>23 </sup></b>in turn <span class="smcap">YOU </span>belong to Christ; Christ, in turn, belongs to God.</p>
</book>