<div>
  <p class="w_biblebookname">1 Corinthians</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter16"></a>
    <a id="chapter16_verse1"></a>
    <span class="w_ch">
      <b>16 </b>
    </span>Now concerning the collection that is for the holy ones, just as I gave orders to the congregations of Ga·la′ti·a, do that way also yourselves. <a id="chapter16_verse2"></a><b><sup>2 </sup></b>Every first day of the week let each of <span class="smcap">YOU </span>at his own house set something aside in store as he may be prospering, so that when I arrive collections will not take place then. <a id="chapter16_verse3"></a><b><sup>3 </sup></b>But when I get there, whatever men <span class="smcap">YOU </span>approve of by letters, these I shall send to carry <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>kind gift to Jerusalem. <a id="chapter16_verse4"></a><b><sup>4 </sup></b>However, if it is fitting for me to go there also, they will go there with me.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter16_verse5"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>5 </sup>
    </b>But I shall come to <span class="smcap">YOU </span>when I have gone through Mac·e·do′ni·a, for I am going through Mac·e·do′ni·a; <a id="chapter16_verse6"></a><b><sup>6 </sup></b>and perhaps I shall stay or even pass the winter with <span class="smcap">YOU</span>, that <span class="smcap">YOU </span>may conduct me partway to where I may be going. <a id="chapter16_verse7"></a><b><sup>7 </sup></b>For I do not want to see <span class="smcap">YOU </span>just now on my passing through, for I hope to remain some time with <span class="smcap">YOU</span>, if Jehovah permits. <a id="chapter16_verse8"></a><b><sup>8 </sup></b>But I am remaining in Eph′e·sus until the festival of Pentecost; <a id="chapter16_verse9"></a><b><sup>9 </sup></b>for a large door that leads to activity has been opened to me, but there are many opposers.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter16_verse10"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>10 </sup>
    </b>However, if Timothy arrives, see that he becomes free of fear among <span class="smcap">YOU</span>, for he is performing the work of Jehovah, even as I am. <a id="chapter16_verse11"></a><b><sup>11 </sup></b>Let no one, therefore, look down upon him. Conduct him partway in peace, that he may get here to me, for I am waiting for him with the brothers.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter16_verse12"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>12 </sup>
    </b>Now concerning A·pol′los our brother, I entreated him very much to come to <span class="smcap">YOU </span>with the brothers, and yet it was not his will at all to come now; but he will come when he has the opportunity.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="page1440"></a>
    <a id="chapter16_verse13"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>13 </sup>
    </b>Stay awake, stand firm in the faith, carry on as men, grow mighty. <a id="chapter16_verse14"></a><b><sup>14 </sup></b>Let all <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>affairs take place with love.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter16_verse15"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>15 </sup>
    </b>Now I exhort <span class="smcap">YOU</span>, brothers: <span class="smcap">YOU </span>know that the household of Steph′a·nas is the firstfruits of A·cha′ia and that they set themselves to minister to the holy ones. <a id="chapter16_verse16"></a><b><sup>16 </sup></b>May <span class="smcap">YOU </span>also keep submitting yourselves to persons of that kind and to everyone cooperating and laboring. <a id="chapter16_verse17"></a><b><sup>17 </sup></b>But I rejoice over the presence of Steph′a·nas and For·tu·na′tus and A·cha′i·cus, because they have made up for <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>not being here. <a id="chapter16_verse18"></a><b><sup>18 </sup></b>For they have refreshed my spirit and <span class="smcap">YOURS</span>. Therefore recognize men of that sort.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter16_verse19"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>19 </sup>
    </b>The congregations of Asia send <span class="smcap">YOU </span>their greetings. Aq′ui·la and Pris′ca together with the congregation that is in their house greet <span class="smcap">YOU </span>heartily in the Lord. <a id="chapter16_verse20"></a><b><sup>20 </sup></b>All the brothers greet <span class="smcap">YOU</span>. Greet one another with a holy kiss.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter16_verse21"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>21 </sup>
    </b>Here is my greeting, Paul’s, in my own hand.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter16_verse22"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>22 </sup>
    </b>If anyone has no affection for the Lord, let him be accursed. O our Lord, come! <a id="chapter16_verse23"></a><b><sup>23 </sup></b>May the undeserved kindness of the Lord Jesus be with <span class="smcap">YOU</span>. <a id="chapter16_verse24"></a><b><sup>24 </sup></b>May my love be with all of <span class="smcap">YOU </span>in union with Christ Jesus.</p>
</div>