<book>
  <p class="w_biblebookname">2 Corinthians</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter7"></a>
    <a id="chapter7_verse1"></a>
    <span class="w_ch">
      <b>7 </b>
    </span>Therefore, since we have these promises, beloved ones, let us cleanse ourselves of every defilement of flesh and spirit, perfecting holiness in God’s fear.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter7_verse2"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>2 </sup>
    </b>A<span class="smcap">LLOW </span>room for us. We have wronged no one, we have corrupted no one, we have taken advantage of no one. <a id="chapter7_verse3"></a><b><sup>3 </sup></b>I do not say this to condemn <span class="smcap">YOU</span>. For I have said before that <span class="smcap">YOU </span>are in our hearts to die and to live with us. <a id="chapter7_verse4"></a><b><sup>4 </sup></b>I have great freeness of speech toward <span class="smcap">YOU</span>. I have great boasting in regard to <span class="smcap">YOU</span>. I am filled with comfort, I am overflowing with joy in all our affliction.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter7_verse5"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>5 </sup>
    </b>In fact, when we arrived in Mac·e·do′ni·a, our flesh got no relief, but we continued to be afflicted in every manner—there were fights without, fears within. <a id="chapter7_verse6"></a><b><sup>6 </sup></b>Nevertheless God, who comforts those laid low, comforted us by the presence of Titus; <a id="chapter7_verse7"></a><b><sup>7 </sup></b>yet not alone by his presence, but also by the comfort with which he had been comforted over <span class="smcap">YOU</span>, as he brought us word again of <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>longing, <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>mourning, <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>zeal for me; so that I rejoiced yet more.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter7_verse8"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>8 </sup>
    </b>Hence even if I saddened <span class="smcap">YOU </span>by my letter, I do not regret it. Even if I did at first regret it, (I see that that letter saddened <span class="smcap">YOU</span>, though but for a little while,) <a id="chapter7_verse9"></a><b><sup>9 </sup></b>now I rejoice, not because <span class="smcap">YOU </span>were just saddened, but because <span class="smcap">YOU </span>were saddened into repenting; for <span class="smcap">YOU </span>were saddened in a godly way, that <span class="smcap">YOU </span>might suffer <a id="page1446"></a>no damage in anything due to us. <a id="chapter7_verse10"></a><b><sup>10 </sup></b>For sadness in a godly way makes for repentance to salvation that is not to be regretted; but the sadness of the world produces death. <a id="chapter7_verse11"></a><b><sup>11 </sup></b>For, look! this very thing, <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>being saddened in a godly way, what a great earnestness it produced in <span class="smcap">YOU</span>, yes, clearing of yourselves, yes, indignation, yes, fear, yes, longing, yes, zeal, yes, righting of the wrong! In every respect <span class="smcap">YOU </span>demonstrated yourselves to be chaste in this matter. <a id="chapter7_verse12"></a><b><sup>12 </sup></b>Certainly, although I wrote <span class="smcap">YOU</span>, I did it, neither for the one who did the wrong, nor for the one who was wronged, but that <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>earnestness for us might be made manifest among <span class="smcap">YOU </span>in the sight of God. <a id="chapter7_verse13"></a><b><sup>13 </sup></b>That is why we have been comforted.</p>
  <p class="sb">However, in addition to our comfort we rejoiced still more abundantly due to the joy of Titus, because his spirit has been refreshed by all of <span class="smcap">YOU</span>. <a id="chapter7_verse14"></a><b><sup>14 </sup></b>For if I have made any boast to him about <span class="smcap">YOU</span>, I have not been put to shame; but as we have spoken all things to <span class="smcap">YOU </span>in truth, so also our boasting before Titus has proved to be true. <a id="chapter7_verse15"></a><b><sup>15 </sup></b>Also, his tender affections are more abundant toward <span class="smcap">YOU</span>, while he calls to mind the obedience of all of <span class="smcap">YOU</span>, how <span class="smcap">YOU </span>received him with fear and trembling. <a id="chapter7_verse16"></a><b><sup>16 </sup></b>I rejoice that in every way I may have good courage by reason of <span class="smcap">YOU</span>.</p>
</book>