<book>
  <p class="w_biblebookname">2 Corinthians</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter12"></a>
    <a id="chapter12_verse1"></a>
    <span class="w_ch">
      <b>12 </b>
    </span>I have to boast. It is not beneficial; but I shall pass on to supernatural visions and revelations of the Lord. <a id="chapter12_verse2"></a><b><sup>2 </sup></b>I know a man in union with Christ who, fourteen years ago—whether in the body I do not know, or out of the body I do not know; God knows—was caught away as such to the third heaven. <a id="chapter12_verse3"></a><b><sup>3 </sup></b>Yes, I know such a man—whether in the body or apart from the body, I do not know, God knows— <a id="chapter12_verse4"></a><b><sup>4 </sup></b>that he was caught away into paradise and heard unutterable words which it is not lawful for a man to speak. <a id="chapter12_verse5"></a><b><sup>5 </sup></b>Over such a man I will boast, but I will not boast over myself, except as respects my weaknesses. <a id="chapter12_verse6"></a><b><sup>6 </sup></b>For if I ever do want to boast, I shall not be unreasonable, for I shall say the truth. But I abstain, in order that no one should put to my credit more than what he sees I am or he hears from me, <a id="chapter12_verse7"></a><b><sup>7 </sup></b>just because of the excess of the revelations.</p>
  <p class="sb">Therefore, that I might not feel overly exalted, there was given me a thorn in the flesh, an angel of Satan, to keep slapping me, that I might not be overly exalted. <a id="chapter12_verse8"></a><b><sup>8 </sup></b>In this behalf I three times entreated the Lord that it might depart from me; <a id="chapter12_verse9"></a><b><sup>9 </sup></b>and yet he really said to me: “My undeserved kindness is sufficient for you; for my power is being made perfect in weakness.” Most gladly, therefore, will I rather boast as respects my weaknesses, that the power of the Christ may like a tent remain over me. <a id="chapter12_verse10"></a><b><sup>10 </sup></b>Therefore I take pleasure in weaknesses, in insults, in cases of need, in persecutions and difficulties, for Christ. For when I am weak, then I am powerful.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter12_verse11"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>11 </sup>
    </b>I have become unreasonable. Y<span class="smcap">OU </span>compelled me to, for I ought to have been recommended by <span class="smcap">YOU</span>. For I did not prove to be inferior to <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>superfine apostles in a single thing, even if I am nothing. <a id="chapter12_verse12"></a><b><sup>12 </sup></b>Indeed, the signs of an apostle were produced among <span class="smcap">YOU </span>by all endurance, and by signs and portents and powerful works. <a id="chapter12_verse13"></a><b><sup>13 </sup></b>For in what respect is it that <span class="smcap">YOU </span>became less than the rest of the congregations, except that I myself did not become a burden to <span class="smcap">YOU</span>? Kindly forgive me this wrong.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter12_verse14"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>14 </sup>
    </b>Look! This is the third time I am ready to come to <span class="smcap">YOU</span>, and yet I will not become a burden. <a id="page1451"></a>For I am seeking, not <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>possessions, but <span class="smcap">YOU</span>; for the children ought not to lay up for their parents, but the parents for their children. <a id="chapter12_verse15"></a><b><sup>15 </sup></b>For my part I will most gladly spend and be completely spent for <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>souls. If I love <span class="smcap">YOU </span>the more abundantly, am I to be loved the less? <a id="chapter12_verse16"></a><b><sup>16 </sup></b>But be that as it may, I did not burden <span class="smcap">YOU </span>down. Nevertheless, <span class="smcap">YOU </span>say, I was “crafty” and I caught <span class="smcap">YOU </span>“by trickery.” <a id="chapter12_verse17"></a><b><sup>17 </sup></b>As for any one of those I have dispatched to <span class="smcap">YOU</span>, I did not take advantage of <span class="smcap">YOU </span>through him, did I? <a id="chapter12_verse18"></a><b><sup>18 </sup></b>I urged Titus and I dispatched the brother with him. Titus did not take advantage of <span class="smcap">YOU </span>at all, did he? We walked in the same spirit, did we not? In the same footsteps, did we not?</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter12_verse19"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>19 </sup>
    </b>Have <span class="smcap">YOU </span>been thinking all this while that we have been making our defense to <span class="smcap">YOU</span>? It is before God that we are speaking in connection with Christ. But, beloved ones, all things are for <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>upbuilding. <a id="chapter12_verse20"></a><b><sup>20 </sup></b>For I am afraid that somehow, when I arrive, I may find <span class="smcap">YOU </span>not as I could wish and I may prove to be to <span class="smcap">YOU </span>not as <span class="smcap">YOU </span>could wish, but, instead, there should somehow be strife, jealousy, cases of anger, contentions, backbitings, whisperings, cases of being puffed up, disorders. <a id="chapter12_verse21"></a><b><sup>21 </sup></b>Perhaps, when I come again, my God might humiliate me among <span class="smcap">YOU</span>, and I might mourn over many of those who formerly sinned but have not repented over their uncleanness and fornication and loose conduct that they have practiced.</p>
</book>