<book>
  <p class="w_biblebookname">2 Corinthians</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter2"></a>
    <a id="chapter2_verse1"></a>
    <span class="w_ch">
      <b>2 </b>
    </span>For this is what I have decided for myself, not to come to <span class="smcap">YOU </span>again in sadness. <a id="chapter2_verse2"></a><b><sup>2 </sup></b>For if I make <span class="smcap">YOU </span>sad, who indeed is there to cheer me except the one that is made sad by me? <a id="chapter2_verse3"></a><b><sup>3 </sup></b>And so I wrote this very thing, that, when I come, I may not get sad because of those over whom I ought to rejoice; because I have confidence in all of <span class="smcap">YOU </span>that the joy I have is that of all of <span class="smcap">YOU</span>. <a id="chapter2_verse4"></a><b><sup>4 </sup></b>For out of much tribulation and anguish of heart I wrote <span class="smcap">YOU </span>with many tears, not that <span class="smcap">YOU </span>might be saddened, but that <span class="smcap">YOU </span>might know the love that I have more especially for <span class="smcap">YOU</span>.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter2_verse5"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>5 </sup>
    </b>Now if anyone has caused sadness, he has saddened, not me, but all of <span class="smcap">YOU </span>to an extent—not to be too harsh in what I say. <a id="chapter2_verse6"></a><b><sup>6 </sup></b>This rebuke given by the majority is sufficient for such a man, <a id="chapter2_verse7"></a><b><sup>7 </sup></b>so that, on the contrary now, <span class="smcap">YOU </span>should kindly forgive and comfort him, that somehow such a man may not be swallowed up by his being overly sad. <a id="chapter2_verse8"></a><b><sup>8 </sup></b>Therefore I exhort <span class="smcap">YOU </span>to confirm <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>love for him. <a id="chapter2_verse9"></a><b><sup>9 </sup></b>For to this end also I write to ascertain the proof of <span class="smcap">YOU</span>, whether <span class="smcap">YOU </span>are obedient in all things. <a id="chapter2_verse10"></a><b><sup>10 </sup></b>Anything <span class="smcap">YOU </span><a id="page1442"></a>kindly forgive anyone, I do too. In fact, as for me, whatever I have kindly forgiven, if I have kindly forgiven anything, it has been for <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>sakes in Christ’s sight; <a id="chapter2_verse11"></a><b><sup>11 </sup></b>that we may not be overreached by Satan, for we are not ignorant of his designs.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter2_verse12"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>12 </sup>
    </b>Now when I arrived in Tro′as to declare the good news about the Christ, and a door was opened to me in the Lord, <a id="chapter2_verse13"></a><b><sup>13 </sup></b>I got no relief in my spirit on account of not finding Titus my brother, but I said good-bye to them and departed for Mac·e·do′ni·a.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter2_verse14"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>14 </sup>
    </b>But thanks be to God who always leads us in a triumphal procession in company with the Christ and makes the odor of the knowledge of him perceptible through us in every place! <a id="chapter2_verse15"></a><b><sup>15 </sup></b>For to God we are a sweet odor of Christ among those who are being saved and among those who are perishing; <a id="chapter2_verse16"></a><b><sup>16 </sup></b>to the latter ones an odor issuing from death to death, to the former ones an odor issuing from life to life. And who is adequately qualified for these things? <a id="chapter2_verse17"></a><b><sup>17 </sup></b>We are; for we are not peddlers of the word of God as many men are, but as out of sincerity, yes, as sent from God, under God’s view, in company with Christ, we are speaking.</p>
</book>