<book>
  <p class="w_biblebookname">2 Corinthians</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter3"></a>
    <a id="chapter3_verse1"></a>
    <span class="w_ch">
      <b>3 </b>
    </span>Are we starting again to recommend ourselves? Or do we, perhaps, like some men, need letters of recommendation to <span class="smcap">YOU </span>or from <span class="smcap">YOU</span>? <a id="chapter3_verse2"></a><b><sup>2 </sup></b>Y<span class="smcap">OU </span>yourselves are our letter, inscribed on our hearts and known and being read by all mankind. <a id="chapter3_verse3"></a><b><sup>3 </sup></b>For <span class="smcap">YOU </span>are shown to be a letter of Christ written by us as ministers, inscribed not with ink but with spirit of a living God, not on stone tablets, but on fleshly tablets, on hearts.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter3_verse4"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>4 </sup>
    </b>Now through the Christ we have this sort of confidence toward God. <a id="chapter3_verse5"></a><b><sup>5 </sup></b>Not that we of ourselves are adequately qualified to reckon anything as issuing from ourselves, but our being adequately qualified issues from God, <a id="chapter3_verse6"></a><b><sup>6 </sup></b>who has indeed adequately qualified us to be ministers of a new covenant, not of a written code, but of spirit; for the written code condemns to death, but the spirit makes alive.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter3_verse7"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>7 </sup>
    </b>Moreover, if the code which administers death and which was engraved in letters in stones came about in a glory, so that the sons of Israel could not gaze intently at the face of Moses because of the glory of his face, a glory that was to be done away with, <a id="chapter3_verse8"></a><b><sup>8 </sup></b>why should not the administering of the spirit be much more with glory? <a id="chapter3_verse9"></a><b><sup>9 </sup></b>For if the code administering condemnation was glorious, much more does the administering of righteousness abound with glory. <a id="chapter3_verse10"></a><b><sup>10 </sup></b>In fact, even that which has once been made glorious has been stripped of glory in this respect, because of the glory that excels it. <a id="chapter3_verse11"></a><b><sup>11 </sup></b>For if that which was to be done away with was brought in with glory, much more would that which remains be with glory.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter3_verse12"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>12 </sup>
    </b>Therefore, as we have such a hope, we are using great freeness of speech, <a id="chapter3_verse13"></a><b><sup>13 </sup></b>and not doing as when Moses would put a veil upon his face, that the sons of Israel might not gaze intently at the end of that which was to be done away with. <a id="chapter3_verse14"></a><b><sup>14 </sup></b>But their mental powers were dulled. For to this present day the same veil remains unlifted at the reading of the old covenant, because it is done away with by means of Christ. <a id="chapter3_verse15"></a><b><sup>15 </sup></b>In fact, down till today whenever Moses is read, a veil lies upon their <a id="page1443"></a>hearts. <a id="chapter3_verse16"></a><b><sup>16 </sup></b>But when there is a turning to Jehovah, the veil is taken away. <a id="chapter3_verse17"></a><b><sup>17 </sup></b>Now Jehovah is the Spirit; and where the spirit of Jehovah is, there is freedom. <a id="chapter3_verse18"></a><b><sup>18 </sup></b>And all of us, while we with unveiled faces reflect like mirrors the glory of Jehovah, are transformed into the same image from glory to glory, exactly as done by Jehovah the Spirit.</p>
</book>