<book>
  <p class="w_biblebookname">Galatians</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter4"></a>
    <a id="chapter4_verse1"></a>
    <span class="w_ch">
      <b>4 </b>
    </span>Now I say that as long as the heir is a babe he does not differ at all from a slave, lord of all things though he is, <a id="chapter4_verse2"></a><b><sup>2 </sup></b>but he is under men in charge and under stewards until the day his father appointed beforehand. <a id="chapter4_verse3"></a><b><sup>3 </sup></b>Likewise we also, when we were babes, continued enslaved by the elementary things belonging to the world. <a id="chapter4_verse4"></a><b><sup>4 </sup></b>But when the full limit of the time arrived, God sent forth his Son, who came to be out of a woman and who came to be under law, <a id="chapter4_verse5"></a><b><sup>5 </sup></b>that he might release by purchase those under law, that we, in turn, might receive the adoption as sons.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter4_verse6"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>6 </sup>
    </b>Now because <span class="smcap">YOU </span>are sons, God has sent forth the spirit of his Son into our hearts and it cries out: <i>“Abba, </i>Father!” <a id="chapter4_verse7"></a><b><sup>7 </sup></b>So, then, you are no longer a slave but a son; and if a son, also an heir through God.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter4_verse8"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>8 </sup>
    </b>Nevertheless, when <span class="smcap">YOU </span>did not know God, then it was that <span class="smcap">YOU </span>slaved for those who by nature are not gods. <a id="chapter4_verse9"></a><b><sup>9 </sup></b>But now that <span class="smcap">YOU </span>have come to know God, or rather now that <span class="smcap">YOU </span>have come to be known by God, how is it that <span class="smcap">YOU </span>are turning back again to the weak and beggarly elementary things and want to slave for them over again? <a id="chapter4_verse10"></a><b><sup>10 </sup></b>Y<span class="smcap">OU </span>are scrupulously observing days and months and seasons and years. <a id="chapter4_verse11"></a><b><sup>11 </sup></b>I fear for <span class="smcap">YOU</span>, that somehow I have toiled to no purpose respecting <span class="smcap">YOU</span>.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter4_verse12"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>12 </sup>
    </b>Brothers, I beg <span class="smcap">YOU</span>, Become as I am, because I used to be also as <span class="smcap">YOU </span>are. Y<span class="smcap">OU </span>did me no wrong. <a id="chapter4_verse13"></a><b><sup>13 </sup></b>But <span class="smcap">YOU </span>know that it was through a sickness of my flesh I declared the good news to <span class="smcap">YOU </span>the first time. <a id="chapter4_verse14"></a><b><sup>14 </sup></b>And what was a trial to <span class="smcap">YOU </span>in my flesh, <span class="smcap">YOU </span>did not treat with contempt or spit at in disgust; but <span class="smcap">YOU </span>received me like an angel of God, like Christ Jesus. <a id="chapter4_verse15"></a><b><sup>15 </sup></b>Where, then, is that happiness <span class="smcap">YOU </span>had? For I bear <span class="smcap">YOU </span>witness that, if it had been possible, <span class="smcap">YOU </span>would have gouged out <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>eyes and given them to me. <a id="chapter4_verse16"></a><b><sup>16 </sup></b>Well, then, have I become <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>enemy because I tell <span class="smcap">YOU </span>the truth? <a id="chapter4_verse17"></a><b><sup>17 </sup></b>They zealously seek <span class="smcap">YOU</span>, not in a fine way, but they want to shut <span class="smcap">YOU </span>off from me, that <span class="smcap">YOU </span>may zealously seek them. <a id="chapter4_verse18"></a><b><sup>18 </sup></b>However, it is fine for <span class="smcap">YOU </span>to be zealously sought for in a fine cause at all times, and not only when I am present with <span class="smcap">YOU</span>, <a id="chapter4_verse19"></a><b><sup>19 </sup></b>my little children, with whom I am again in childbirth pains until Christ is formed in <span class="smcap">YOU</span>. <a id="chapter4_verse20"></a><b><sup>20 </sup></b>But I could wish to be present with <span class="smcap">YOU </span>just <a id="page1456"></a>now and to speak in a different way, because I am perplexed over <span class="smcap">YOU</span>.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter4_verse21"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>21 </sup>
    </b>Tell me, <span class="smcap">YOU </span>who want to be under law, Do <span class="smcap">YOU </span>not hear the Law? <a id="chapter4_verse22"></a><b><sup>22 </sup></b>For example, it is written that Abraham acquired two sons, one by the servant girl and one by the free woman; <a id="chapter4_verse23"></a><b><sup>23 </sup></b>but the one by the servant girl was actually born in the manner of flesh, the other by the free woman through a promise. <a id="chapter4_verse24"></a><b><sup>24 </sup></b>These things stand as a symbolic drama; for these women mean two covenants, the one from Mount Si′nai, which brings forth children for slavery, and which is Ha′gar. <a id="chapter4_verse25"></a><b><sup>25 </sup></b>Now this Ha′gar means Si′nai, a mountain in Arabia, and she corresponds with the Jerusalem today, for she is in slavery with her children. <a id="chapter4_verse26"></a><b><sup>26 </sup></b>But the Jerusalem above is free, and she is our mother.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter4_verse27"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>27 </sup>
    </b>For it is written: “Be glad, you barren woman who does not give birth; break out and cry aloud, you woman who does not have childbirth pains; for the children of the desolate woman are more numerous than those of her who has the husband.” <a id="chapter4_verse28"></a><b><sup>28 </sup></b>Now we, brothers, are children belonging to the promise the same as Isaac was. <a id="chapter4_verse29"></a><b><sup>29 </sup></b>But just as then the one born in the manner of flesh began persecuting the one born in the manner of spirit, so also now. <a id="chapter4_verse30"></a><b><sup>30 </sup></b>Nevertheless, what does the Scripture say? “Drive out the servant girl and her son, for by no means shall the son of the servant girl be an heir with the son of the free woman.” <a id="chapter4_verse31"></a><b><sup>31 </sup></b>Wherefore, brothers, we are children, not of a servant girl, but of the free woman.</p>
</book>