<book>
  <p class="w_biblebookname">Galatians</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter5"></a>
    <a id="chapter5_verse1"></a>
    <span class="w_ch">
      <b>5 </b>
    </span>For such freedom Christ set us free. Therefore stand fast, and do not let yourselves be confined again in a yoke of slavery.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter5_verse2"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>2 </sup>
    </b>See! I, Paul, am telling <span class="smcap">YOU </span>that if <span class="smcap">YOU </span>become circumcised, Christ will be of no benefit to <span class="smcap">YOU</span>. <a id="chapter5_verse3"></a><b><sup>3 </sup></b>Moreover, I bear witness again to every man getting circumcised that he is under obligation to perform the whole Law. <a id="chapter5_verse4"></a><b><sup>4 </sup></b>Y<span class="smcap">OU </span>are parted from Christ, whoever <span class="smcap">YOU </span>are that try to be declared righteous by means of law; <span class="smcap">YOU </span>have fallen away from his undeserved kindness. <a id="chapter5_verse5"></a><b><sup>5 </sup></b>For our part we by spirit are eagerly waiting for the hoped-for righteousness as a result of faith. <a id="chapter5_verse6"></a><b><sup>6 </sup></b>For as regards Christ Jesus neither circumcision is of any value nor is uncircumcision, but faith operating through love is.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter5_verse7"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>7 </sup>
    </b>Y<span class="smcap">OU </span>were running well. Who hindered <span class="smcap">YOU </span>from keeping on obeying the truth? <a id="chapter5_verse8"></a><b><sup>8 </sup></b>This sort of persuasion is not from the One calling <span class="smcap">YOU</span>. <a id="chapter5_verse9"></a><b><sup>9 </sup></b>A little leaven ferments the whole lump. <a id="chapter5_verse10"></a><b><sup>10 </sup></b>I am confident about <span class="smcap">YOU </span>who are in union with the Lord that <span class="smcap">YOU </span>will not come to think otherwise; but the one who is causing <span class="smcap">YOU </span>trouble will bear his judgment, no matter who he may be. <a id="chapter5_verse11"></a><b><sup>11 </sup></b>As for me, brothers, if I am still preaching circumcision, why am I still being persecuted? Then, indeed, the stumbling block of the torture stake has been abolished. <a id="chapter5_verse12"></a><b><sup>12 </sup></b>I wish the men who are trying to overturn <span class="smcap">YOU </span>would even get themselves emasculated.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter5_verse13"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>13 </sup>
    </b>Y<span class="smcap">OU </span>were, of course, called for freedom, brothers; only do not use this freedom as an inducement for the flesh, but through love slave for one another. <a id="chapter5_verse14"></a><b><sup>14 </sup></b>For the entire Law stands fulfilled in one saying, namely: “You must love your neighbor as yourself.” <a id="chapter5_verse15"></a><b><sup>15 </sup></b>If, though, <span class="smcap">YOU </span>keep on biting and devouring one another, look out <a id="page1457"></a>that <span class="smcap">YOU </span>do not get annihilated by one another.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter5_verse16"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>16 </sup>
    </b>But I say, Keep walking by spirit and <span class="smcap">YOU </span>will carry out no fleshly desire at all. <a id="chapter5_verse17"></a><b><sup>17 </sup></b>For the flesh is against the spirit in its desire, and the spirit against the flesh; for these are opposed to each other, so that the very things that <span class="smcap">YOU </span>would like to do <span class="smcap">YOU </span>do not do. <a id="chapter5_verse18"></a><b><sup>18 </sup></b>Furthermore, if <span class="smcap">YOU </span>are being led by spirit, <span class="smcap">YOU </span>are not under law.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter5_verse19"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>19 </sup>
    </b>Now the works of the flesh are manifest, and they are fornication, uncleanness, loose conduct, <a id="chapter5_verse20"></a><b><sup>20 </sup></b>idolatry, practice of spiritism, enmities, strife, jealousy, fits of anger, contentions, divisions, sects, <a id="chapter5_verse21"></a><b><sup>21 </sup></b>envies, drunken bouts, revelries, and things like these. As to these things I am forewarning <span class="smcap">YOU</span>, the same way as I did forewarn <span class="smcap">YOU</span>, that those who practice such things will not inherit God’s kingdom.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter5_verse22"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>22 </sup>
    </b>On the other hand, the fruitage of the spirit is love, joy, peace, long-suffering, kindness, goodness, faith, <a id="chapter5_verse23"></a><b><sup>23 </sup></b>mildness, self-control. Against such things there is no law. <a id="chapter5_verse24"></a><b><sup>24 </sup></b>Moreover, those who belong to Christ Jesus impaled the flesh together with its passions and desires.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter5_verse25"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>25 </sup>
    </b>If we are living by spirit, let us go on walking orderly also by spirit. <a id="chapter5_verse26"></a><b><sup>26 </sup></b>Let us not become egotistical, stirring up competition with one another, envying one another.</p>
</book>