<div>
  <p class="w_biblebookname">Galatians</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter3"></a>
    <a id="chapter3_verse1"></a>
    <span class="w_ch">
      <b>3 </b>
    </span>O senseless Ga·la′tians, who is it that brought <span class="smcap">YOU </span>under evil influence, <span class="smcap">YOU </span>before whose eyes Jesus Christ was openly portrayed impaled? <a id="chapter3_verse2"></a><b><sup>2 </sup></b>This alone I want to learn from <span class="smcap">YOU</span>: Did <span class="smcap">YOU </span>receive the spirit due to works of law or due to a hearing by faith? <a id="chapter3_verse3"></a><b><sup>3 </sup></b>Are <span class="smcap">YOU </span>so senseless? After starting in spirit are <span class="smcap">YOU </span>now being completed in flesh? <a id="chapter3_verse4"></a><b><sup>4 </sup></b>Did <span class="smcap">YOU </span>undergo so many sufferings to no purpose? If it really was to no purpose. <a id="chapter3_verse5"></a><b><sup>5 </sup></b>He, therefore, who supplies <span class="smcap">YOU </span>the spirit and performs powerful works among <span class="smcap">YOU</span>, does he do it owing to works of law or owing to a hearing by faith? <a id="chapter3_verse6"></a><b><sup>6 </sup></b>Just as Abraham “put faith in Jehovah, and it was counted to him as righteousness.”</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter3_verse7"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>7 </sup>
    </b>Surely <span class="smcap">YOU </span>know that those who adhere to faith are the ones who are sons of Abraham. <a id="chapter3_verse8"></a><b><sup>8 </sup></b>Now the Scripture, seeing in advance that God would declare people of the nations righteous due to faith, declared the good news beforehand to Abraham, namely: “By means of you all the nations will be blessed.” <a id="chapter3_verse9"></a><b><sup>9 </sup></b>Consequently those who adhere to faith are being blessed together with faithful Abraham.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter3_verse10"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>10 </sup>
    </b>For all those who depend upon works of law are under a curse; for it is written: “Cursed is every one that does not continue in all the things written in the scroll of the Law in order to do them.” <a id="chapter3_verse11"></a><b><sup>11 </sup></b>Moreover, that by law no one is declared righteous with God is evident, because “the righteous one will live by reason of faith.” <a id="chapter3_verse12"></a><b><sup>12 </sup></b>Now the Law does not adhere to faith, but “he that does them shall live by means of them.” <a id="chapter3_verse13"></a><b><sup>13 </sup></b>Christ by purchase released us from the curse of the Law by becoming a curse instead of us, because it is written: “Accursed is every man hanged upon a stake.” <a id="chapter3_verse14"></a><b><sup>14 </sup></b>The purpose was that the blessing of Abraham might come to be by means of Jesus Christ for the nations, that we might receive the promised spirit through our faith.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter3_verse15"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>15 </sup>
    </b>Brothers, I speak with a human illustration: A validated covenant, though it is a man’s, no one sets aside or attaches additions to it. <a id="chapter3_verse16"></a><b><sup>16 </sup></b>Now the promises were spoken to Abraham and to his seed. It says, not: “And to seeds,” as in the case of many such, but as in the case of one: “And to your seed,” who is Christ. <a id="chapter3_verse17"></a><b><sup>17 </sup></b>Further, I say this: As to the covenant previously validated by God, the Law that has come into being four hundred and thirty years later does not invalidate it, so as to abolish the promise. <a id="chapter3_verse18"></a><b><sup>18 </sup></b>For if the inheritance is due to law, it is no longer due to promise; whereas God has kindly given it to Abraham through a promise.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter3_verse19"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>19 </sup>
    </b>Why, then, the Law? It was added to make transgressions manifest, until the seed should arrive to whom the promise had been made; and it was transmitted through angels by the hand of a mediator. <a id="chapter3_verse20"></a><b><sup>20 </sup></b>Now there is no mediator where only one person is concerned, but God is only one. <a id="chapter3_verse21"></a><b><sup>21 </sup></b>Is the Law, therefore, against the promises of God? May that never happen! For if a law had been given that was able to give life, righteousness would actually have been by means of law. <a id="chapter3_verse22"></a><b><sup>22 </sup></b>But the Scripture delivered <a id="page1455"></a>up all things together to the custody of sin, that the promise resulting from faith toward Jesus Christ might be given to those exercising faith.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter3_verse23"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>23 </sup>
    </b>However, before the faith arrived, we were being guarded under law, being delivered up together into custody, looking to the faith that was destined to be revealed. <a id="chapter3_verse24"></a><b><sup>24 </sup></b>Consequently the Law has become our tutor leading to Christ, that we might be declared righteous due to faith. <a id="chapter3_verse25"></a><b><sup>25 </sup></b>But now that the faith has arrived, we are no longer under a tutor.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter3_verse26"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>26 </sup>
    </b>Y<span class="smcap">OU </span>are all, in fact, sons of God through <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>faith in Christ Jesus. <a id="chapter3_verse27"></a><b><sup>27 </sup></b>For all of <span class="smcap">YOU </span>who were baptized into Christ have put on Christ. <a id="chapter3_verse28"></a><b><sup>28 </sup></b>There is neither Jew nor Greek, there is neither slave nor freeman, there is neither male nor female; for <span class="smcap">YOU </span>are all one person in union with Christ Jesus. <a id="chapter3_verse29"></a><b><sup>29 </sup></b>Moreover, if <span class="smcap">YOU </span>belong to Christ, <span class="smcap">YOU </span>are really Abraham’s seed, heirs with reference to a promise.</p>
</div>