<div>
  <p class="w_biblebookname">Colossians</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter4"></a>
    <a id="chapter4_verse1"></a>
    <span class="w_ch">
      <b>4 </b>
    </span>Y<span class="smcap">OU </span>masters, keep dealing out what is righteous and what is fair to <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>slaves, knowing that <span class="smcap">YOU </span>also have a Master in heaven.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter4_verse2"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>2 </sup>
    </b>Be persevering in prayer, remaining awake in it with thanksgiving, <a id="chapter4_verse3"></a><b><sup>3 </sup></b>at the same time praying also for us, that God may open a door of utterance to us, to speak the sacred secret about the Christ, for which, in fact, I am in prison bonds; <a id="chapter4_verse4"></a><b><sup>4 </sup></b>so that I shall make it manifest as I ought to speak.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter4_verse5"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>5 </sup>
    </b>Go on walking in wisdom toward those on the outside, buying out the opportune time for yourselves. <a id="chapter4_verse6"></a><b><sup>6 </sup></b>Let <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>utterance be always with graciousness, seasoned with salt, so as to know how <span class="smcap">YOU </span>ought to give an answer to each one.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter4_verse7"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>7 </sup>
    </b>All my affairs Tych′i·cus, my beloved brother and faithful minister and fellow slave in the <a id="page1473"></a>Lord, will make known to <span class="smcap">YOU</span>. <a id="chapter4_verse8"></a><b><sup>8 </sup></b>For the very purpose of <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>knowing the things having to do with us and that he may comfort <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>hearts, I am sending him to <span class="smcap">YOU </span><a id="chapter4_verse9"></a><b><sup>9 </sup></b>along with O·nes′i·mus, my faithful and beloved brother, who is from among <span class="smcap">YOU</span>. All the things here they will make known to <span class="smcap">YOU</span>.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter4_verse10"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>10 </sup>
    </b>Ar·is·tar′chus my fellow captive sends <span class="smcap">YOU </span>his greetings, and so does Mark the cousin of Bar′na·bas, (concerning whom <span class="smcap">YOU </span>received commands to welcome him if ever he comes to <span class="smcap">YOU</span>,) <a id="chapter4_verse11"></a><b><sup>11 </sup></b>and Jesus who is called Justus, these being of those circumcised. Only these are my fellow workers for the kingdom of God, and these very ones have become a strengthening aid to me. <a id="chapter4_verse12"></a><b><sup>12 </sup></b>Ep′a·phras, who is from among <span class="smcap">YOU</span>, a slave of Christ Jesus, sends <span class="smcap">YOU </span>his greetings, always exerting himself in <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>behalf in his prayers, that <span class="smcap">YOU </span>may finally stand complete and with firm conviction in all the will of God. <a id="chapter4_verse13"></a><b><sup>13 </sup></b>I indeed bear him witness that he puts himself to great effort in behalf of <span class="smcap">YOU </span>and of those at La·o·di·ce′a and of those at Hi·e·rap′o·lis.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter4_verse14"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>14 </sup>
    </b>Luke the beloved physician sends <span class="smcap">YOU </span>his greetings, and so does De′mas. <a id="chapter4_verse15"></a><b><sup>15 </sup></b>Give my greetings to the brothers at La·o·di·ce′a and to Nym′pha and to the congregation at her house. <a id="chapter4_verse16"></a><b><sup>16 </sup></b>And when this letter has been read among <span class="smcap">YOU</span>, arrange that it also be read in the congregation of the La·o·di·ce′ans and that <span class="smcap">YOU </span>also read the one from La·o·di·ce′a. <a id="chapter4_verse17"></a><b><sup>17 </sup></b>Also, tell Ar·chip′pus: “Keep watching the ministry which you accepted in the Lord, that you fulfill it.”</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter4_verse18"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>18 </sup>
    </b>Here is my greeting, Paul’s, in my own hand. Continue bearing my prison bonds in mind. The undeserved kindness be with <span class="smcap">YOU</span>.</p>
</div>