<book>
  <p class="w_biblebookname">Colossians</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter3"></a>
    <a id="chapter3_verse1"></a>
    <span class="w_ch">
      <b>3 </b>
    </span>If, however, <span class="smcap">YOU </span>were raised up with the Christ, go on seeking the things above, where the Christ is seated at the right hand of God. <a id="chapter3_verse2"></a><b><sup>2 </sup></b>Keep <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>minds fixed on the things above, not on the things upon the earth. <a id="chapter3_verse3"></a><b><sup>3 </sup></b>For <span class="smcap">YOU </span>died, and <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>life has been hidden with the Christ in union with God. <a id="chapter3_verse4"></a><b><sup>4 </sup></b>When the Christ, our life, is made manifest, then <span class="smcap">YOU </span>also will be made manifest with him in glory.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter3_verse5"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>5 </sup>
    </b>Deaden, therefore, <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>body members that are upon the earth as respects fornication, uncleanness, sexual appetite, hurtful desire, and covetousness, which is idolatry. <a id="chapter3_verse6"></a><b><sup>6 </sup></b>On account of those things the wrath of God is coming. <a id="chapter3_verse7"></a><b><sup>7 </sup></b>In <a id="page1472"></a>those very things <span class="smcap">YOU</span>, too, once walked when <span class="smcap">YOU </span>used to live in them. <a id="chapter3_verse8"></a><b><sup>8 </sup></b>But now really put them all away from <span class="smcap">YOU</span>, wrath, anger, badness, abusive speech, and obscene talk out of <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>mouth. <a id="chapter3_verse9"></a><b><sup>9 </sup></b>Do not be lying to one another. Strip off the old personality with its practices, <a id="chapter3_verse10"></a><b><sup>10 </sup></b>and clothe yourselves with the new personality, which through accurate knowledge is being made new according to the image of the One who created it, <a id="chapter3_verse11"></a><b><sup>11 </sup></b>where there is neither Greek nor Jew, circumcision nor uncircumcision, foreigner, Scyth′i·an, slave, freeman, but Christ is all things and in all.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter3_verse12"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>12 </sup>
    </b>Accordingly, as God’s chosen ones, holy and loved, clothe yourselves with the tender affections of compassion, kindness, lowliness of mind, mildness, and long-suffering. <a id="chapter3_verse13"></a><b><sup>13 </sup></b>Continue putting up with one another and forgiving one another freely if anyone has a cause for complaint against another. Even as Jehovah freely forgave <span class="smcap">YOU</span>, so do <span class="smcap">YOU </span>also. <a id="chapter3_verse14"></a><b><sup>14 </sup></b>But, besides all these things, clothe yourselves with love, for it is a perfect bond of union.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter3_verse15"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>15 </sup>
    </b>Also, let the peace of the Christ control in <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>hearts, for <span class="smcap">YOU </span>were, in fact, called to it in one body. And show yourselves thankful. <a id="chapter3_verse16"></a><b><sup>16 </sup></b>Let the word of the Christ reside in <span class="smcap">YOU </span>richly in all wisdom. Keep on teaching and admonishing one another with psalms, praises to God, spiritual songs with graciousness, singing in <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>hearts to Jehovah. <a id="chapter3_verse17"></a><b><sup>17 </sup></b>And whatever it is that <span class="smcap">YOU </span>do in word or in work, do everything in the name of the Lord Jesus, thanking God the Father through him.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter3_verse18"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>18 </sup>
    </b>Y<span class="smcap">OU </span>wives, be in subjection to <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>husbands, as it is becoming in the Lord. <a id="chapter3_verse19"></a><b><sup>19 </sup></b>Y<span class="smcap">OU </span>husbands, keep on loving <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>wives and do not be bitterly angry with them. <a id="chapter3_verse20"></a><b><sup>20 </sup></b>Y<span class="smcap">OU </span>children, be obedient to <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>parents in everything, for this is well-pleasing in the Lord. <a id="chapter3_verse21"></a><b><sup>21 </sup></b>Y<span class="smcap">OU </span>fathers, do not be exasperating <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>children, so that they do not become downhearted. <a id="chapter3_verse22"></a><b><sup>22 </sup></b>Y<span class="smcap">OU </span>slaves, be obedient in everything to those who are <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>masters in a fleshly sense, not with acts of eye-service, as men pleasers, but with sincerity of heart, with fear of Jehovah. <a id="chapter3_verse23"></a><b><sup>23 </sup></b>Whatever <span class="smcap">YOU </span>are doing, work at it whole-souled as to Jehovah, and not to men, <a id="chapter3_verse24"></a><b><sup>24 </sup></b>for <span class="smcap">YOU </span>know that it is from Jehovah <span class="smcap">YOU </span>will receive the due reward of the inheritance. S<span class="smcap">LAVE </span>for the Master, Christ. <a id="chapter3_verse25"></a><b><sup>25 </sup></b>Certainly the one that is doing wrong will receive back what he wrongly did, and there is no partiality.</p>
</book>