<book>
  <p class="w_biblebookname">1 Thessalonians</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter2"></a>
    <a id="chapter2_verse1"></a>
    <span class="w_ch">
      <b>2 </b>
    </span>To be sure, <span class="smcap">YOU </span>yourselves know, brothers, how our visit to <span class="smcap">YOU </span>has not been without results, <a id="chapter2_verse2"></a><b><sup>2 </sup></b>but how, after we had first suffered and been insolently treated (just as <span class="smcap">YOU </span>know) in Phi·lip′pi, we mustered up boldness by means of our God to speak to <span class="smcap">YOU </span>the good news of God with a great deal of struggling. <a id="chapter2_verse3"></a><b><sup>3 </sup></b>For the exhortation we give does not arise from error or from uncleanness or with deceit, <a id="chapter2_verse4"></a><b><sup>4 </sup></b>but, just as we have been proved by God as fit to be entrusted with the good news, so we speak, as pleasing, not men, but God, who makes proof of our hearts.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter2_verse5"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>5 </sup>
    </b>In fact, at no time have we turned up either with flattering speech, (just as <span class="smcap">YOU </span>know) or with a false front for covetousness, God is witness! <a id="chapter2_verse6"></a><b><sup>6 </sup></b>Neither have we been seeking glory from men, no, either from <span class="smcap">YOU </span>or from others, though we could be an expensive burden as apostles of Christ. <a id="chapter2_verse7"></a><b><sup>7 </sup></b>To the contrary, we became gentle in the midst of <span class="smcap">YOU</span>, as when a nursing mother cherishes her own children. <a id="chapter2_verse8"></a><b><sup>8 </sup></b>So, having a tender affection for <span class="smcap">YOU</span>, we were well pleased to impart to <span class="smcap">YOU</span>, not only the good news of God, but also our own souls, because <span class="smcap">YOU </span>became beloved to us.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter2_verse9"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>9 </sup>
    </b>Certainly <span class="smcap">YOU </span>bear in mind, brothers, our labor and toil. It was with working night and day, so as not to put an expensive burden upon any one of <span class="smcap">YOU</span>, that we preached the good news of God to <span class="smcap">YOU</span>. <a id="chapter2_verse10"></a><b><sup>10 </sup></b>Y<span class="smcap">OU </span>are witnesses, God is also, how loyal and righteous and unblamable we proved to be to <span class="smcap">YOU </span>believers. <a id="chapter2_verse11"></a><b><sup>11 </sup></b>In harmony with that <span class="smcap">YOU </span>well know how, as a father does his children, we kept exhorting each one of <span class="smcap">YOU</span>, and consoling and bearing witness to <span class="smcap">YOU</span>, <a id="chapter2_verse12"></a><b><sup>12 </sup></b>to the end that <span class="smcap">YOU </span>should go on walking worthily of God who is calling <span class="smcap">YOU </span>to his kingdom and glory.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter2_verse13"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>13 </sup>
    </b>Indeed, that is why we also thank God incessantly, because when <span class="smcap">YOU </span>received God’s word, which <span class="smcap">YOU </span>heard from us, <span class="smcap">YOU </span>accepted it, not as the word of men, but, just as it truthfully is, as the word of God, which is also at work in <span class="smcap">YOU </span>believers. <a id="chapter2_verse14"></a><b><sup>14 </sup></b>For <span class="smcap">YOU </span>became imitators, brothers, of the congregations of God that are in Ju·de′a in union with Christ Jesus, because <span class="smcap">YOU </span>also began suffering at the hands of <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>own countrymen the same things as they also are suffering at the hands of the Jews, <a id="chapter2_verse15"></a><b><sup>15 </sup></b>who killed even the Lord Jesus and the prophets and persecuted us. Furthermore, they are not pleasing God, but are against the interests of all men, <a id="chapter2_verse16"></a><b><sup>16 </sup></b>as they try to hinder us from speaking to people of the nations that these might be saved, with the result that they always fill up the measure of their sins. But his wrath has at length come upon them.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter2_verse17"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>17 </sup>
    </b>As for ourselves, brothers, when we were bereaved of <span class="smcap">YOU </span>for but a short time, in person, not in heart, we endeavored far more than is usual to see <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>faces with great desire. <a id="chapter2_verse18"></a><b><sup>18 </sup></b>For this reason we wanted to come to <span class="smcap">YOU</span>, yes, I Paul, both once and a second time, but Satan cut <a id="page1475"></a>across our path. <a id="chapter2_verse19"></a><b><sup>19 </sup></b>For what is our hope or joy or crown of exultation—why, is it not in fact <span class="smcap">YOU</span>?—before our Lord Jesus at his presence? <a id="chapter2_verse20"></a><b><sup>20 </sup></b>Y<span class="smcap">OU </span>certainly are our glory and joy.</p>
</book>