<book>
  <p class="w_biblebookname">2 Thessalonians</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter2"></a>
    <a id="chapter2_verse1"></a>
    <span class="w_ch">
      <b>2 </b>
    </span>However, brothers, respecting the presence of our Lord Jesus Christ and our being gathered together to him, we request of <span class="smcap">YOU </span><a id="chapter2_verse2"></a><b><sup>2 </sup></b>not to be quickly shaken from <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>reason nor to be excited either through an inspired expression or through a verbal message or through a letter as though from us, to the effect that the day of Jehovah is here.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter2_verse3"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>3 </sup>
    </b>Let no one seduce <span class="smcap">YOU </span>in any manner, because it will not come unless the apostasy comes first and the man of lawlessness gets revealed, the son of destruction. <a id="chapter2_verse4"></a><b><sup>4 </sup></b>He is set in opposition and lifts himself up over everyone who is called “god” or an object of reverence, so that he sits down in the temple of The God, publicly showing himself to be a god. <a id="chapter2_verse5"></a><b><sup>5 </sup></b>Do <span class="smcap">YOU </span>not remember that, while I was yet with <span class="smcap">YOU</span>, I used to tell <span class="smcap">YOU </span>these things?</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter2_verse6"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>6 </sup>
    </b>And so now <span class="smcap">YOU </span>know the thing that acts as a restraint, with a view to his being revealed in his own due time. <a id="chapter2_verse7"></a><b><sup>7 </sup></b>True, the mystery of this lawlessness is already at work; but only till he who is right now acting as a restraint gets to be out of the way. <a id="chapter2_verse8"></a><b><sup>8 </sup></b>Then, indeed, the lawless one will be revealed, whom the Lord Jesus will do away with by the spirit of his mouth and bring to nothing by the manifestation of his presence. <a id="chapter2_verse9"></a><b><sup>9 </sup></b>But the lawless one’s presence is according to the operation of Satan with every powerful work and lying signs and portents <a id="chapter2_verse10"></a><b><sup>10 </sup></b>and with every unrighteous deception for those who are perishing, as a retribution because they did not accept the love of the truth that they might be saved. <a id="chapter2_verse11"></a><b><sup>11 </sup></b>So that is why God lets an operation of error go to them, that they may get to believing the lie, <a id="chapter2_verse12"></a><b><sup>12 </sup></b>in order that they all may be judged because they did not believe the truth but took pleasure in unrighteousness.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter2_verse13"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>13 </sup>
    </b>However, we are obligated to thank God always for <span class="smcap">YOU</span>, brothers loved by Jehovah, because God selected <span class="smcap">YOU </span>from the beginning for salvation by sanctifying <span class="smcap">YOU </span>with spirit and by <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>faith in the truth. <a id="chapter2_verse14"></a><b><sup>14 </sup></b>To this very destiny he called <span class="smcap">YOU </span>through the good news we declare, for the purpose of acquiring the glory of our Lord Jesus Christ. <a id="chapter2_verse15"></a><b><sup>15 </sup></b>So, then, brothers, stand firm and maintain <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>hold on the traditions that <span class="smcap">YOU </span>were taught, whether it was through a verbal message or through a letter of ours. <a id="chapter2_verse16"></a><b><sup>16 </sup></b>Moreover, may our Lord Jesus Christ himself and God our Father, who loved us and gave everlasting comfort and good hope by means of undeserved kindness, <a id="chapter2_verse17"></a><b><sup>17 </sup></b>comfort <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>hearts and make <span class="smcap">YOU </span>firm in every good deed and word.</p>
</book>