<book>
  <p class="w_biblebookname">Hebrews</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter13"></a>
    <a id="chapter13_verse1"></a>
    <span class="w_ch">
      <b>13 </b>
    </span>Let <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>brotherly love continue. <a id="chapter13_verse2"></a><b><sup>2 </sup></b>Do not forget hospitality, for through it some, unknown to themselves, entertained angels. <a id="chapter13_verse3"></a><b><sup>3 </sup></b>Keep in mind those in prison bonds as though <span class="smcap">YOU </span>have been bound with them, and those being ill-treated, since <span class="smcap">YOU </span>yourselves also are still in a body. <a id="chapter13_verse4"></a><b><sup>4 </sup></b>Let marriage be honorable among all, and the marriage bed be without defilement, for God will judge fornicators and adulterers. <a id="chapter13_verse5"></a><b><sup>5 </sup></b>Let <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>manner of life be free of the love of money, while <span class="smcap">YOU </span>are content with the present things. For he has said: “I will by no means leave you nor by any means forsake you.” <a id="chapter13_verse6"></a><b><sup>6 </sup></b>So that we may be of good courage and say: “Jehovah is my helper; I will not be afraid. What can man do to me?”</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter13_verse7"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>7 </sup>
    </b>Remember those who are taking the lead among <span class="smcap">YOU</span>, who have spoken the word of God to <span class="smcap">YOU</span>, and as <span class="smcap">YOU </span>contemplate how their conduct turns out imitate their faith.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter13_verse8"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>8 </sup>
    </b>Jesus Christ is the same yesterday and today, and forever.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter13_verse9"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>9 </sup>
    </b>Do not be carried away with various and strange teachings; for it is fine for the heart to be given firmness by undeserved kindness, not by eatables, by which those who occupy themselves with them have not been benefited.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter13_verse10"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>10 </sup>
    </b>We have an altar from which those who do sacred service at the tent have no authority to eat. <a id="chapter13_verse11"></a><b><sup>11 </sup></b>For the bodies of those animals whose blood is taken into the holy place by the high priest for sin are burned up outside the camp. <a id="chapter13_verse12"></a><b><sup>12 </sup></b>Hence Jesus also, that he might sanctify the people with his own blood, suffered outside the gate. <a id="chapter13_verse13"></a><b><sup>13 </sup></b>Let us, then, go forth to him outside the camp, bearing the reproach he bore, <a id="chapter13_verse14"></a><b><sup>14 </sup></b>for we do not have here a city that continues, but we are earnestly seeking the one to come. <a id="chapter13_verse15"></a><b><sup>15 </sup></b>Through him let us always offer to God a sacrifice of praise, that is, the fruit of lips which make public declaration to his name. <a id="chapter13_verse16"></a><b><sup>16 </sup></b>Moreover, do not forget the doing of good and the sharing of things with others, for with such sacrifices God is well pleased.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter13_verse17"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>17 </sup>
    </b>Be obedient to those who are taking the lead among <span class="smcap">YOU </span><a id="page1505"></a>and be submissive, for they are keeping watch over <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>souls as those who will render an account; that they may do this with joy and not with sighing, for this would be damaging to <span class="smcap">YOU</span>.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter13_verse18"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>18 </sup>
    </b>Carry on prayer for us, for we trust we have an honest conscience, as we wish to conduct ourselves honestly in all things. <a id="chapter13_verse19"></a><b><sup>19 </sup></b>But I exhort <span class="smcap">YOU </span>more especially to do this, that I may be restored to <span class="smcap">YOU </span>the sooner.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter13_verse20"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>20 </sup>
    </b>Now may the God of peace, who brought up from the dead the great shepherd of the sheep with the blood of an everlasting covenant, our Lord Jesus, <a id="chapter13_verse21"></a><b><sup>21 </sup></b>equip <span class="smcap">YOU </span>with every good thing to do his will, performing in us through Jesus Christ that which is well-pleasing in his sight; to whom be the glory forever and ever. Amen.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter13_verse22"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>22 </sup>
    </b>Now I exhort <span class="smcap">YOU</span>, brothers, to bear with this word of encouragement, for I have, indeed, composed a letter to <span class="smcap">YOU </span>in few words. <a id="chapter13_verse23"></a><b><sup>23 </sup></b>Take note that our brother Timothy has been released, with whom, if he comes quite soon, I shall see <span class="smcap">YOU</span>.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter13_verse24"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>24 </sup>
    </b>Give my greetings to all those who are taking the lead among <span class="smcap">YOU </span>and to all the holy ones. Those in Italy send <span class="smcap">YOU </span>their greetings.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter13_verse25"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>25 </sup>
    </b>The undeserved kindness be with all of <span class="smcap">YOU</span>.</p>
</book>