<div>
  <p class="w_biblebookname">1 Peter</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter3"></a>
    <a id="chapter3_verse1"></a>
    <span class="w_ch">
      <b>3 </b>
    </span>In like manner, <span class="smcap">YOU </span>wives, be in subjection to <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>own husbands, in order that, if any are not obedient to the word, they may be won without a word through the conduct of their wives, <a id="chapter3_verse2"></a><b><sup>2 </sup></b>because of having been eyewitnesses of <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>chaste conduct together with deep respect. <a id="chapter3_verse3"></a><b><sup>3 </sup></b>And do not let <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>adornment be that of the external braiding of the hair and of the putting on of gold ornaments or the wearing of outer garments, <a id="chapter3_verse4"></a><b><sup>4 </sup></b>but let it be the secret person of the heart in the incorruptible apparel of the quiet and mild spirit, which is of great value in the eyes of God. <a id="chapter3_verse5"></a><b><sup>5 </sup></b>For so, too, formerly the holy women who were hoping in God used to adorn themselves, subjecting themselves to their own husbands, <a id="chapter3_verse6"></a><b><sup>6 </sup></b>as Sarah used to obey Abraham, calling him “lord.” And <span class="smcap">YOU </span>have become her children, provided <span class="smcap">YOU </span>keep on doing good and not fearing any cause for terror.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter3_verse7"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>7 </sup>
    </b>Y<span class="smcap">OU </span>husbands, continue dwelling in like manner with them according to knowledge, assigning them honor as to a weaker vessel, the feminine one, since <span class="smcap">YOU </span>are also heirs with them of the undeserved favor of life, in order for <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>prayers not to be hindered.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter3_verse8"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>8 </sup>
    </b>Finally, all of <span class="smcap">YOU </span>be like-minded, showing fellow feeling, having brotherly affection, tenderly compassionate, humble in mind, <a id="chapter3_verse9"></a><b><sup>9 </sup></b>not paying back injury for injury or reviling for reviling, but, to the contrary, bestowing a blessing, because <span class="smcap">YOU </span>were called to this course, so that <span class="smcap">YOU </span>might inherit a blessing.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter3_verse10"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>10 </sup>
    </b>For, “he that would love life and see good days, let him restrain his tongue from what is bad and his lips from speaking deception, <a id="chapter3_verse11"></a><b><sup>11 </sup></b>but let him turn away from what is bad and do what is good; let him seek peace and pursue it. <a id="chapter3_verse12"></a><b><sup>12 </sup></b>For the eyes of Jehovah are upon the righteous ones, and his ears are toward their supplication; but <a id="page1513"></a>the face of Jehovah is against those doing bad things.”</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter3_verse13"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>13 </sup>
    </b>Indeed, who is the man that will harm <span class="smcap">YOU </span>if <span class="smcap">YOU </span>become zealous for what is good? <a id="chapter3_verse14"></a><b><sup>14 </sup></b>But even if <span class="smcap">YOU </span>should suffer for the sake of righteousness, <span class="smcap">YOU </span>are happy. However, the object of their fear do not <span class="smcap">YOU </span>fear, neither become agitated. <a id="chapter3_verse15"></a><b><sup>15 </sup></b>But sanctify the Christ as Lord in <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>hearts, always ready to make a defense before everyone that demands of <span class="smcap">YOU </span>a reason for the hope in <span class="smcap">YOU</span>, but doing so together with a mild temper and deep respect.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter3_verse16"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>16 </sup>
    </b>Hold a good conscience, so that in the particular in which <span class="smcap">YOU </span>are spoken against they may get ashamed who are speaking slightingly of <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>good conduct in connection with Christ. <a id="chapter3_verse17"></a><b><sup>17 </sup></b>For it is better to suffer because <span class="smcap">YOU </span>are doing good, if the will of God wishes it, than because <span class="smcap">YOU </span>are doing evil. <a id="chapter3_verse18"></a><b><sup>18 </sup></b>Why, even Christ died once for all time concerning sins, a righteous person for unrighteous ones, that he might lead <span class="smcap">YOU </span>to God, he being put to death in the flesh, but being made alive in the spirit. <a id="chapter3_verse19"></a><b><sup>19 </sup></b>In this state also he went his way and preached to the spirits in prison, <a id="chapter3_verse20"></a><b><sup>20 </sup></b>who had once been disobedient when the patience of God was waiting in Noah’s days, while the ark was being constructed, in which a few people, that is, eight souls, were carried safely through the water.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter3_verse21"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>21 </sup>
    </b>That which corresponds to this is also now saving <span class="smcap">YOU</span>, namely, baptism, (not the putting away of the filth of the flesh, but the request made to God for a good conscience,) through the resurrection of Jesus Christ. <a id="chapter3_verse22"></a><b><sup>22 </sup></b>He is at God’s right hand, for he went his way to heaven; and angels and authorities and powers were made subject to him.</p>
</div>