<div>
  <p class="w_biblebookname">2 Peter</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter3"></a>
    <a id="chapter3_verse1"></a>
    <span class="w_ch">
      <b>3 </b>
    </span>Beloved ones, this is now the second letter I am writing <span class="smcap">YOU</span>, in which, as in my first one, I am arousing <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>clear thinking faculties by way of a reminder, <a id="chapter3_verse2"></a><b><sup>2 </sup></b>that <span class="smcap">YOU </span>should remember the sayings previously spoken by the holy prophets and the commandment of the Lord and Savior through <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>apostles. <a id="chapter3_verse3"></a><b><sup>3 </sup></b>For <span class="smcap">YOU </span>know this first, that in the last days there will come ridiculers with their ridicule, proceeding according to their own desires <a id="chapter3_verse4"></a><b><sup>4 </sup></b>and saying: “Where is this promised presence of his? Why, from the day our forefathers fell asleep in death, all things are continuing exactly as from creation’s beginning.”</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter3_verse5"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>5 </sup>
    </b>For, according to their wish, this fact escapes their notice, that there were heavens from of old and an earth standing compactly out of water and in the midst of water by the word of God; <a id="chapter3_verse6"></a><b><sup>6 </sup></b>and by those means the world of that time suffered destruction when it was deluged with water. <a id="chapter3_verse7"></a><b><sup>7 </sup></b>But by the same word the heavens and the earth that are now are stored up for fire and are being reserved to the day of judgment and of destruction of the ungodly men.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter3_verse8"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>8 </sup>
    </b>However, let this one fact not be escaping <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>notice, beloved ones, that one day is with Jehovah as a thousand years and a thousand years as one day. <a id="chapter3_verse9"></a><b><sup>9 </sup></b>Jehovah is not slow respecting his promise, as some people consider slowness, but he is patient with <span class="smcap">YOU </span>because he does not desire any to be destroyed but desires all to attain to repentance. <a id="chapter3_verse10"></a><b><sup>10 </sup></b>Yet Jehovah’s day will come as a thief, in which the heavens will pass away with a hissing noise, but the elements being intensely hot will be dissolved, and earth and the works in it will be discovered.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter3_verse11"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>11 </sup>
    </b>Since all these things are thus to be dissolved, what sort of persons ought <span class="smcap">YOU </span>to be in holy acts of conduct and deeds of godly devotion, <a id="chapter3_verse12"></a><b><sup>12 </sup></b>awaiting and keeping close in mind the presence of the day of Jehovah, through which the heavens being on fire will be dissolved and the elements being intensely hot will melt! <a id="chapter3_verse13"></a><b><sup>13 </sup></b>But there are new heavens and a new earth that we are awaiting according to his promise, and in these righteousness is to dwell.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter3_verse14"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>14 </sup>
    </b>Hence, beloved ones, since <span class="smcap">YOU </span>are awaiting these things, do <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>utmost to be found finally by him spotless and unblemished and in peace. <a id="chapter3_verse15"></a><b><sup>15 </sup></b>Furthermore, consider the patience of our Lord as salvation, just as our beloved brother Paul according to the wisdom given him also wrote <span class="smcap">YOU</span>, <a id="chapter3_verse16"></a><b><sup>16 </sup></b>speaking about these things as he does also in <a id="page1518"></a>all his letters. In them, however, are some things hard to understand, which the untaught and unsteady are twisting, as they do also the rest of the Scriptures, to their own destruction.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter3_verse17"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>17 </sup>
    </b>Y<span class="smcap">OU</span>, therefore, beloved ones, having this advance knowledge, be on <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>guard that <span class="smcap">YOU </span>may not be led away with them by the error of the law-defying people and fall from <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>own steadfastness. <a id="chapter3_verse18"></a><b><sup>18 </sup></b>No, but go on growing in the undeserved kindness and knowledge of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. To him be the glory both now and to the day of eternity.</p>
</div>