<book>
  <p class="w_biblebookname">Revelation</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter6"></a>
    <a id="chapter6_verse1"></a>
    <span class="w_ch">
      <b>6 </b>
    </span>And I saw when the Lamb opened one of the seven seals, and I heard one of the four living creatures say with a voice as of thunder: “Come!” <a id="chapter6_verse2"></a><b><sup>2 </sup></b>And I saw, and, look! a white horse; and the one seated upon it had a bow; and a crown was given him, and he went forth conquering and to complete his conquest.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter6_verse3"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>3 </sup>
    </b>And when he opened the second seal, I heard the second living creature say: “Come!” <a id="chapter6_verse4"></a><b><sup>4 </sup></b>And another came forth, a fiery-colored horse; and to the one seated upon it there was granted to take peace away from the earth so that they should slaughter one another; and a great sword was given him.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter6_verse5"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>5 </sup>
    </b>And when he opened the third seal, I heard the third living creature say: “Come!” And I saw, and, look! a black horse; and the one seated upon it had a pair of scales in his hand. <a id="chapter6_verse6"></a><b><sup>6 </sup></b>And I heard a voice as if in the midst of the four living creatures say: “A quart of wheat for a de·nar′i·us, and three quarts of barley for a de·nar′i·us; and do not harm the olive oil and the wine.”</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter6_verse7"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>7 </sup>
    </b>And when he opened the fourth seal, I heard the voice of the fourth living creature say: “Come!” <a id="chapter6_verse8"></a><b><sup>8 </sup></b>And I saw, and, look! a pale horse; and the one seated upon it had the name Death. And Ha′des was closely following him. And authority was given them over the fourth part of the earth, to kill with a long sword and with food shortage and with deadly plague and by the wild beasts of the earth.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="page1532"></a>
    <a id="chapter6_verse9"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>9 </sup>
    </b>And when he opened the fifth seal, I saw underneath the altar the souls of those slaughtered because of the word of God and because of the witness work that they used to have. <a id="chapter6_verse10"></a><b><sup>10 </sup></b>And they cried with a loud voice, saying: “Until when, Sovereign Lord holy and true, are you refraining from judging and avenging our blood upon those who dwell on the earth?” <a id="chapter6_verse11"></a><b><sup>11 </sup></b>And a white robe was given to each of them; and they were told to rest a little while longer, until the number was filled also of their fellow slaves and their brothers who were about to be killed as they also had been.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter6_verse12"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>12 </sup>
    </b>And I saw when he opened the sixth seal, and a great earthquake occurred; and the sun became black as sackcloth of hair, and the entire moon became as blood, <a id="chapter6_verse13"></a><b><sup>13 </sup></b>and the stars of heaven fell to the earth, as when a fig tree shaken by a high wind casts its unripe figs. <a id="chapter6_verse14"></a><b><sup>14 </sup></b>And the heaven departed as a scroll that is being rolled up, and every mountain and every island were removed from their places. <a id="chapter6_verse15"></a><b><sup>15 </sup></b>And the kings of the earth and the top-ranking ones and the military commanders and the rich and the strong ones and every slave and every free person hid themselves in the caves and in the rock-masses of the mountains. <a id="chapter6_verse16"></a><b><sup>16 </sup></b>And they keep saying to the mountains and to the rock-masses: “Fall over us and hide us from the face of the One seated on the throne and from the wrath of the Lamb, <a id="chapter6_verse17"></a><b><sup>17 </sup></b>because the great day of their wrath has come, and who is able to stand?”</p>
</book>