<div>
  <p class="w_biblebookname">Revelation</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter4"></a>
    <a id="chapter4_verse1"></a>
    <span class="w_ch">
      <b>4 </b>
    </span>After these things I saw, and, look! an opened door in heaven, and the first voice that I heard was as of a trumpet, speaking with me, saying: “Come on up here, and I shall show you the things that must take place.” <a id="chapter4_verse2"></a><b><sup>2 </sup></b>After these things I immediately came to be in the power of the spirit: and, look! a throne was in its position in heaven, and there is one seated upon the throne. <a id="chapter4_verse3"></a><b><sup>3 </sup></b>And the one seated is, in appearance, like a jasper stone and a precious red-colored stone, and round about the throne there is a rainbow like an emerald in appearance.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter4_verse4"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>4 </sup>
    </b>And round about the throne there are twenty-four thrones, and upon these thrones I saw seated twenty-four elders dressed in white outer garments, and upon their heads golden crowns. <a id="chapter4_verse5"></a><b><sup>5 </sup></b>And out of the throne there are proceeding lightnings and voices and thunders; and there are seven lamps of fire burning before the throne, and these mean the seven spirits of God. <a id="chapter4_verse6"></a><b><sup>6 </sup></b>And before the throne there is, as it were, a glassy sea like crystal.</p>
  <p class="sb">And in the midst of the throne and around the throne there are four living creatures that are full of eyes in front and behind. <a id="chapter4_verse7"></a><b><sup>7 </sup></b>And the first living creature is like a lion, and the second living creature is like a young bull, and the third living creature has a face like a man’s, and the fourth living creature is like a flying eagle. <a id="chapter4_verse8"></a><b><sup>8 </sup></b>And as for the four living creatures, each one of them respectively has six wings; round about and underneath they are full of eyes. And they have no rest day and night as they say: “Holy, holy, holy is Jehovah God, the Almighty, who was and who is and who is coming.”</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter4_verse9"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>9 </sup>
    </b>And whenever the living creatures offer glory and honor and thanksgiving to the One seated upon the throne, the One that lives forever and ever, <a id="chapter4_verse10"></a><b><sup>10 </sup></b>the twenty-four elders fall down before the One seated upon the throne and worship the One that lives forever and ever, and they cast their crowns before the throne, saying: <a id="chapter4_verse11"></a><b><sup>11 </sup></b>“You are worthy, Jehovah, even our God, to receive the glory and the honor and the power, because you created all things, and because of your will they existed and were created.”</p>
</div>