<div>
  <p class="w_biblebookname">Exodus</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter27"></a>
    <a id="chapter27_verse1"></a>
    <span class="w_ch">
      <b>27 </b>
    </span>“And you must make the altar of acacia wood, five cubits its length and five cubits its width. The altar should be foursquare, and its height three cubits. <a id="chapter27_verse2"></a><b><sup>2 </sup></b>And you must make its horns upon its four corners. Its horns will proceed out of it, and you must overlay it with copper. <a id="chapter27_verse3"></a><b><sup>3 </sup></b>And you must make its cans for clearing away its fatty ashes, and its shovels, and its bowls, and its forks, and its fire holders; and you will make all its utensils of copper. <a id="chapter27_verse4"></a><b><sup>4 </sup></b>And you must make a grating for it, a network of copper; and you must make upon the net four rings of copper at its four extremities. <a id="chapter27_verse5"></a><b><sup>5 </sup></b>And you must put it under the altar’s rim down within, and the net must be toward the center of the altar. <a id="chapter27_verse6"></a><b><sup>6 </sup></b>And you must make poles for the altar, its poles being of acacia wood, and you must overlay them with copper. <a id="chapter27_verse7"></a><b><sup>7 </sup></b>And its poles must be put into the rings, and the poles must be upon the two sides of the altar when carrying it. <a id="chapter27_verse8"></a><b><sup>8 </sup></b>A hollow chest of planks you will make it. Just as he showed you in the mountain, so they will make it.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter27_verse9"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>9 </sup>
    </b>“And you must make the courtyard of the tabernacle. For the side toward the Neg′eb, to the south, the courtyard has hangings of fine twisted linen, a hundred cubits being the length for the one side. <a id="chapter27_verse10"></a><b><sup>10 </sup></b>And its twenty pillars and their twenty socket pedestals are of copper. The pegs of the pillars and their joints are of silver. <a id="chapter27_verse11"></a><b><sup>11 </sup></b>So, too, it is for the north side in length, the hangings being for a hundred cubits of length, and its twenty pillars and their twenty socket pedestals being of copper, the pegs of the pillars and their joints being of silver. <a id="chapter27_verse12"></a><b><sup>12 </sup></b>As for the width of the courtyard, on the west side the hangings are of fifty cubits, their pillars being ten and their socket pedestals ten. <a id="chapter27_verse13"></a><b><sup>13 </sup></b>And the width of the courtyard on the east side toward the sunrising is fifty cubits. <a id="chapter27_verse14"></a><b><sup>14 </sup></b>And there are fifteen cubits of hangings to one side, their pillars being three and their socket pedestals three. <a id="chapter27_verse15"></a><b><sup>15 </sup></b>And for the other side there are fifteen cubits of hangings, their pillars being three and their socket pedestals three.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter27_verse16"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>16 </sup>
    </b>“And for the gate of the courtyard there is a screen twenty cubits long, of blue thread and wool dyed reddish purple and coccus scarlet material and fine twisted linen, the work of a weaver, their pillars being four and their socket pedestals four. <a id="chapter27_verse17"></a><b><sup>17 </sup></b>All the pillars of the courtyard round about have fastenings of silver, and their pegs are of silver but their socket <a id="page114"></a>pedestals of copper. <a id="chapter27_verse18"></a><b><sup>18 </sup></b>The length of the courtyard is a hundred cubits, and the width fifty cubits, and the height five cubits, of fine twisted linen, and their socket pedestals being of copper. <a id="chapter27_verse19"></a><b><sup>19 </sup></b>And all the utensils of the tabernacle in all its service, and all its tent pins, and all the pins of the courtyard are of copper.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter27_verse20"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>20 </sup>
    </b>“As for you, you are to command the sons of Israel that they get for you pure, beaten olive oil for the luminary, in order to light up the lamps constantly. <a id="chapter27_verse21"></a><b><sup>21 </sup></b>In the tent of meeting, outside the curtain that is by the Testimony, Aaron and his sons will set it in order from evening till morning before Jehovah. It is a statute to time indefinite for their generations, to be performed by the sons of Israel.</p>
</div>