<div>
  <p class="w_biblebookname">Leviticus</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter23"></a>
    <a id="chapter23_verse1"></a>
    <span class="w_ch">
      <b>23 </b>
    </span>And Jehovah went on speaking to Moses, saying: <a id="chapter23_verse2"></a><b><sup>2 </sup></b>“Speak to the sons of Israel, and you must say to them, ‘The seasonal festivals of Jehovah that <span class="smcap">YOU </span>should proclaim are holy conventions. These are my seasonal festivals:</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter23_verse3"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>3 </sup>
    </b>“‘Six days may work be done, but on the seventh day is a sabbath of complete rest, a holy convention. Y<span class="smcap">OU </span>may do no sort of work. It is a sabbath to Jehovah in all places where <span class="smcap">YOU </span>dwell.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter23_verse4"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>4 </sup>
    </b>“‘These are the seasonal festivals of Jehovah, holy conventions, which <span class="smcap">YOU </span>should proclaim at their appointed times: <a id="chapter23_verse5"></a><b><sup>5 </sup></b>In the first month, on the fourteenth day of the month, between the two evenings is the passover to Jehovah.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter23_verse6"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>6 </sup>
    </b>“‘And on the fifteenth day of this month is the festival of unfermented cakes to Jehovah. Seven days <span class="smcap">YOU </span>should eat unfermented cakes. <a id="chapter23_verse7"></a><b><sup>7 </sup></b>On the first day <span class="smcap">YOU </span>will have a holy convention occur. No sort of laborious <a id="page168"></a>work may <span class="smcap">YOU </span>do. <a id="chapter23_verse8"></a><b><sup>8 </sup></b>But <span class="smcap">YOU </span>must present an offering made by fire to Jehovah seven days. On the seventh day there will be a holy convention. No sort of laborious work may <span class="smcap">YOU </span>do.’”</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter23_verse9"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>9 </sup>
    </b>And Jehovah continued to speak to Moses, saying: <a id="chapter23_verse10"></a><b><sup>10 </sup></b>“Speak to the sons of Israel, and you must say to them, ‘When <span class="smcap">YOU </span>eventually come into the land that I am giving <span class="smcap">YOU</span>, and <span class="smcap">YOU </span>have reaped its harvest, <span class="smcap">YOU </span>must also bring a sheaf of the firstfruits of <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>harvest to the priest. <a id="chapter23_verse11"></a><b><sup>11 </sup></b>And he must wave the sheaf to and fro before Jehovah to gain approval for <span class="smcap">YOU</span>. Directly the day after the sabbath the priest should wave it to and fro. <a id="chapter23_verse12"></a><b><sup>12 </sup></b>And on the day of <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>having the sheaf waved to and fro <span class="smcap">YOU </span>must render up a sound young ram, in its first year, for a burnt offering to Jehovah; <a id="chapter23_verse13"></a><b><sup>13 </sup></b>and as its grain offering two tenths of an e′phah of fine flour moistened with oil, as an offering made by fire to Jehovah, a restful odor; and as its drink offering a fourth of a hin of wine. <a id="chapter23_verse14"></a><b><sup>14 </sup></b>And <span class="smcap">YOU </span>must eat no bread nor roasted grain nor new grain until this very day, until <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>bringing the offering of <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>God. It is a statute to time indefinite for <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>generations in all places where <span class="smcap">YOU </span>dwell.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter23_verse15"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>15 </sup>
    </b>“‘And <span class="smcap">YOU </span>must count for yourselves from the day after the sabbath, from the day of <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>bringing the sheaf of the wave offering, seven sabbaths. They should prove to be complete. <a id="chapter23_verse16"></a><b><sup>16 </sup></b>To the day after the seventh sabbath <span class="smcap">YOU </span>should count, fifty days, and <span class="smcap">YOU </span>must present a new grain offering to Jehovah. <a id="chapter23_verse17"></a><b><sup>17 </sup></b>Out of <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>dwelling places <span class="smcap">YOU </span>should bring two loaves as a wave offering. Of two tenths of an e′phah of fine flour they should prove to be. They should be baked leavened, as first ripe fruits to Jehovah. <a id="chapter23_verse18"></a><b><sup>18 </sup></b>And <span class="smcap">YOU </span>must present along with the loaves seven sound male lambs, each a year old, and one young bull and two rams. They should serve as a burnt offering to Jehovah along with their grain offering and their drink offerings as an offering made by fire, of a restful odor to Jehovah. <a id="chapter23_verse19"></a><b><sup>19 </sup></b>And <span class="smcap">YOU </span>must render up one kid of the goats as a sin offering and two male lambs, each a year old, as a communion sacrifice. <a id="chapter23_verse20"></a><b><sup>20 </sup></b>And the priest must wave them to and fro along with the loaves of the first ripe fruits, as a wave offering before Jehovah, along with the two male lambs. They should serve as something holy to Jehovah for the priest. <a id="chapter23_verse21"></a><b><sup>21 </sup></b>And <span class="smcap">YOU </span>must make a proclamation on this very day; there will be a holy convention for yourselves. No sort of laborious work may <span class="smcap">YOU </span>do. It is a statute to time indefinite in all <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>dwelling places for <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>generations.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter23_verse22"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>22 </sup>
    </b>“‘And when <span class="smcap">YOU </span>people reap the harvest of <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>land, you must not do completely the edge of your field when you are reaping, and the gleaning of your harvest you must not pick up. You should leave them for the afflicted one and the alien resident. I am Jehovah <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>God.’”</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter23_verse23"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>23 </sup>
    </b>And Jehovah went on speaking to Moses, saying: <a id="chapter23_verse24"></a><b><sup>24 </sup></b>“Speak to the sons of Israel, saying, ‘In the seventh month, on the first of the month, there should occur for <span class="smcap">YOU </span>a complete rest, a memorial by the trumpet blast, a holy convention. <a id="chapter23_verse25"></a><b><sup>25 </sup></b>No sort of laborious work may <span class="smcap">YOU </span>do, and <span class="smcap">YOU </span>must present an offering made by fire to Jehovah.’”</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter23_verse26"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>26 </sup>
    </b>And Jehovah spoke further to Moses, saying: <a id="chapter23_verse27"></a><b><sup>27 </sup></b>“However, on the tenth of this seventh month is the day of atonement. A holy convention should take place for <span class="smcap">YOU</span>, and <span class="smcap">YOU </span>must afflict <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>souls and present an <a id="page169"></a>offering made by fire to Jehovah. <a id="chapter23_verse28"></a><b><sup>28 </sup></b>And <span class="smcap">YOU </span>must do no sort of work on this very day, because it is a day of atonement to make atonement for <span class="smcap">YOU </span>before Jehovah <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>God; <a id="chapter23_verse29"></a><b><sup>29 </sup></b>because every soul that will not be afflicted on this very day must be cut off from his people. <a id="chapter23_verse30"></a><b><sup>30 </sup></b>As for any soul that will do any sort of work on this very day, I must destroy that soul from among his people. <a id="chapter23_verse31"></a><b><sup>31 </sup></b>Y<span class="smcap">OU </span>must do no sort of work. It is a statute to time indefinite for <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>generations in all places where <span class="smcap">YOU </span>dwell. <a id="chapter23_verse32"></a><b><sup>32 </sup></b>It is a sabbath of complete rest for <span class="smcap">YOU</span>, and <span class="smcap">YOU </span>must afflict <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>souls on the ninth of the month in the evening. From evening to evening <span class="smcap">YOU </span>should observe <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>sabbath.”</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter23_verse33"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>33 </sup>
    </b>And Jehovah continued to speak to Moses, saying: <a id="chapter23_verse34"></a><b><sup>34 </sup></b>“Speak to the sons of Israel, saying, ‘On the fifteenth day of this seventh month is the festival of booths for seven days to Jehovah. <a id="chapter23_verse35"></a><b><sup>35 </sup></b>On the first day is a holy convention. No sort of laborious work may <span class="smcap">YOU </span>do. <a id="chapter23_verse36"></a><b><sup>36 </sup></b>Seven days <span class="smcap">YOU </span>should present an offering made by fire to Jehovah. On the eighth day there should occur a holy convention for <span class="smcap">YOU</span>, and <span class="smcap">YOU </span>must present an offering made by fire to Jehovah. It is a solemn assembly. No sort of laborious work may <span class="smcap">YOU </span>do.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter23_verse37"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>37 </sup>
    </b>“‘These are the seasonal festivals of Jehovah that <span class="smcap">YOU </span>should proclaim as holy conventions, for presenting an offering made by fire to Jehovah: the burnt offering and the grain offering of the sacrifice and the drink offerings according to the daily schedule, <a id="chapter23_verse38"></a><b><sup>38 </sup></b>besides the sabbaths of Jehovah and besides <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>gifts and besides all <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>vow offerings and besides all <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>voluntary offerings, which <span class="smcap">YOU </span>should give to Jehovah. <a id="chapter23_verse39"></a><b><sup>39 </sup></b>However, on the fifteenth day of the seventh month, when <span class="smcap">YOU </span>have gathered the produce of the land, <span class="smcap">YOU </span>should celebrate the festival of Jehovah seven days. On the first day is a complete rest and on the eighth day is a complete rest. <a id="chapter23_verse40"></a><b><sup>40 </sup></b>And <span class="smcap">YOU </span>must take for yourselves on the first day the fruit of splendid trees, the fronds of palm trees and the boughs of branchy trees and poplars of the torrent valley, and <span class="smcap">YOU </span>must rejoice before Jehovah <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>God seven days. <a id="chapter23_verse41"></a><b><sup>41 </sup></b>And <span class="smcap">YOU </span>must celebrate it as a festival to Jehovah seven days in the year. As a statute to time indefinite during <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>generations, <span class="smcap">YOU </span>should celebrate it in the seventh month. <a id="chapter23_verse42"></a><b><sup>42 </sup></b>It is in the booths <span class="smcap">YOU </span>should dwell seven days. All the natives in Israel should dwell in the booths, <a id="chapter23_verse43"></a><b><sup>43 </sup></b>in order that <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>generations may know that it was in the booths that I made the sons of Israel to dwell when I was bringing them out of the land of Egypt. I am Jehovah <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>God.’”</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter23_verse44"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>44 </sup>
    </b>Accordingly Moses spoke of the seasonal festivals of Jehovah to the sons of Israel.</p>
</div>