<div>
  <p class="w_biblebookname">Leviticus</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter5"></a>
    <a id="chapter5_verse1"></a>
    <span class="w_ch">
      <b>5 </b>
    </span>“‘Now in case a soul sins in that he has heard public cursing and he is a witness or he has seen it or has come to know of it, if he does not report it, then he must answer for his error.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter5_verse2"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>2 </sup>
    </b>“‘Or when a soul touches some unclean thing, whether the dead body of an unclean wild beast or the dead body of an unclean domestic animal or the dead body of an unclean swarming creature, although it has been hidden from him, still he is unclean and has become guilty. <a id="chapter5_verse3"></a><b><sup>3 </sup></b>Or in case he touches the uncleanness of a man as respects any uncleanness of his with which he may become unclean, although it had been hidden from him, and yet he himself has come to know it, then he has become guilty.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter5_verse4"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>4 </sup>
    </b>“‘Or in case a soul swears to the extent of speaking thoughtlessly with his lips to do evil or to do good as respects anything at all that the man might speak thoughtlessly in a sworn statement, although it had been hidden from him, and yet he himself has come to know it, then he has become guilty as respects one of these things.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter5_verse5"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>5 </sup>
    </b>“‘And it must occur that in case he becomes guilty as respects one of these things, then he must confess in what way he has sinned. <a id="chapter5_verse6"></a><b><sup>6 </sup></b>And he must bring his guilt offering to Jehovah for his sin that he has committed, namely, a female from the flock, a female lamb or a female kid of the goats, for a sin offering; and the priest must make an atonement for him for his sin.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter5_verse7"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>7 </sup>
    </b>“‘If, though, he cannot afford enough for a sheep, then he must bring as his guilt offering for the sin that he has committed two turtledoves or two young pigeons to Jehovah, one for a sin offering and one for a burnt offering. <a id="chapter5_verse8"></a><b><sup>8 </sup></b>And he must bring them to the priest, who must present first the one for the sin offering and nip off its head at the front of its neck, but he should not sever it. <a id="chapter5_verse9"></a><b><sup>9 </sup></b>And he must spatter some of the blood of the sin offering upon the side of the altar, but the remainder of the blood will be drained out at the base of the altar. It is a sin offering. <a id="chapter5_verse10"></a><b><sup>10 </sup></b>And the other one he will handle as a burnt offering according to the regular procedure; <a id="page140"></a>and the priest must make an atonement for him for his sin that he has committed, and so it must be forgiven him.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter5_verse11"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>11 </sup>
    </b>“‘Now if he does not have the means for two turtledoves or two young pigeons, then he must bring as his offering for the sin he has committed the tenth of an e′phah of fine flour for a sin offering. He must not put oil upon it and he must not place frankincense upon it, for it is a sin offering. <a id="chapter5_verse12"></a><b><sup>12 </sup></b>And he must bring it to the priest, and the priest must grasp from it his handful as a remembrancer of it and must make it smoke on the altar upon Jehovah’s offerings made by fire. It is a sin offering. <a id="chapter5_verse13"></a><b><sup>13 </sup></b>And the priest must make an atonement for him for his sin that he has committed, any one of these sins, and so it must be forgiven him; and it must become the priest’s the same as a grain offering.’”</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter5_verse14"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>14 </sup>
    </b>And Jehovah continued to speak to Moses, saying: <a id="chapter5_verse15"></a><b><sup>15 </sup></b>“In case a soul behaves unfaithfully in that he actually sins by mistake against the holy things of Jehovah, then he must bring as his guilt offering to Jehovah a sound ram from the flock, according to the estimated value in silver shekels, by the shekel of the holy place, as a guilt offering. <a id="chapter5_verse16"></a><b><sup>16 </sup></b>And he will make compensation for the sin he has committed against the holy place and he will add to it a fifth of it, and he must give it to the priest, that the priest may make an atonement for him with the ram of the guilt offering, and so it must be forgiven him.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter5_verse17"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>17 </sup>
    </b>“And if a soul sins in that he does do one of all the things that Jehovah commands should not be done, although he did not know it, yet he has become guilty and must answer for his error. <a id="chapter5_verse18"></a><b><sup>18 </sup></b>And he must bring a sound ram from the flock according to the estimated value, for a guilt offering, to the priest; and the priest must make an atonement for him for his mistake that he committed unintentionally, although he himself did not know it, and so it must be forgiven him. <a id="chapter5_verse19"></a><b><sup>19 </sup></b>It is a guilt offering. He has positively become guilty against Jehovah.”</p>
</div>