<div>
  <p class="w_biblebookname">Deuteronomy</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter10"></a>
    <a id="chapter10_verse1"></a>
    <span class="w_ch">
      <b>10 </b>
    </span>“At that particular time Jehovah said to me, ‘Carve for yourself two tablets of stone like the first ones, and come up to me into the mountain, and you must make an ark of wood for yourself. <a id="chapter10_verse2"></a><b><sup>2 </sup></b>And I shall write upon the tablets the words that appeared on the first tablets, which you shattered, and you must place them in the ark.’ <a id="chapter10_verse3"></a><b><sup>3 </sup></b>So I made an ark of acacia wood and carved two tablets of stone like the first ones and went up into the mountain, and the two tablets were in my hand. <a id="chapter10_verse4"></a><b><sup>4 </sup></b>Then he wrote upon the tablets the same writing as the first, the Ten Words, which Jehovah had spoken to <span class="smcap">YOU </span>in the mountain out of the middle of the fire in the day of the congregation; after which Jehovah gave them to me. <a id="chapter10_verse5"></a><b><sup>5 </sup></b>Then I turned and went down from the mountain and placed the tablets in the ark that I had made, that they might continue there, just as Jehovah had commanded me.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter10_verse6"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>6 </sup>
    </b>“And the sons of Israel pulled away from Be·er′oth Ben′e-ja′a·kan for Mo·se′rah. There Aaron died, and he got to be buried there; and El·e·a′zar his son began to act as priest instead of him. <a id="chapter10_verse7"></a><b><sup>7 </sup></b>From there they pulled away for Gud′go·dah, and from Gud′go·dah for Jot′ba·thah, a land of torrent valleys running with water.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter10_verse8"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>8 </sup>
    </b>“At that particular time Jehovah separated the tribe of Le′vi to carry the ark of Jehovah’s covenant, to stand before Jehovah for ministering to him and to bless in his name until this day. <a id="chapter10_verse9"></a><b><sup>9 </sup></b>That is why Le′vi has come to have no share and inheritance with his brothers. Jehovah is his inheritance, just as Jehovah your God had said to him. <a id="chapter10_verse10"></a><b><sup>10 </sup></b>And I—I stayed in the mountain the same as the first days, forty days and forty nights, and Jehovah proceeded to listen to me also on that occasion. Jehovah did not want to bring you to ruin. <a id="chapter10_verse11"></a><b><sup>11 </sup></b>Then Jehovah said to me, ‘Get up, go before the people for a pulling away, that they may go in and take possession of the land that I have sworn to their forefathers to give to them.’</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter10_verse12"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>12 </sup>
    </b>“And now, O Israel, what is Jehovah your God asking of you but to fear Jehovah your God, so as to walk in all his ways and to love him and to serve Jehovah your God with all your heart and all your soul; <a id="chapter10_verse13"></a><b><sup>13 </sup></b>to keep the commandments of Jehovah and his statutes that I am commanding you today, for your good? <a id="chapter10_verse14"></a><b><sup>14 </sup></b>Behold, to Jehovah your God belong the heavens, even the heavens of the heavens, the earth and all that is in it. <a id="chapter10_verse15"></a><b><sup>15 </sup></b>Only to your forefathers did Jehovah get attached so as to love them, so that he chose their offspring after them, even <span class="smcap">YOU</span>, out of all the peoples, as at this day. <a id="chapter10_verse16"></a><b><sup>16 </sup></b>And <span class="smcap">YOU </span>must circumcise the foreskin of <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>hearts and not harden <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>necks any longer. <a id="chapter10_verse17"></a><b><sup>17 </sup></b>For Jehovah <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>God is the God of gods and the Lord of lords, the God great, mighty and fear-inspiring, who treats none with partiality nor accepts a bribe, <a id="chapter10_verse18"></a><b><sup>18 </sup></b>executing judgment for the fatherless boy and the widow and loving the alien resident so as to give him bread and a mantle. <a id="chapter10_verse19"></a><b><sup>19 </sup></b>Y<span class="smcap">OU </span>too must love the alien resident, for <span class="smcap">YOU </span>became alien residents in the land of Egypt.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="page252"></a>
    <a id="chapter10_verse20"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>20 </sup>
    </b>“Jehovah your God you should fear. Him you should serve, and to him you should cling, and by his name you should make sworn statements. <a id="chapter10_verse21"></a><b><sup>21 </sup></b>He is the One for you to praise, and he is your God, who has done with you these great and fear-inspiring things that your eyes have seen. <a id="chapter10_verse22"></a><b><sup>22 </sup></b>With seventy souls your forefathers went down into Egypt, and now Jehovah your God has constituted you like the stars of the heavens for multitude.</p>
</div>