<div>
  <p class="w_biblebookname">Job</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter7"></a>
    <a id="chapter7_verse1"></a>
    <span class="w_ch">
      <b>7 </b>
    </span>“Is there not a compulsory labor for mortal man on earth,</p>
  <p class="sz">And are not his days like the days of a hired laborer?</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="page676"></a>
    <a id="chapter7_verse2"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>2 </sup>
    </b>Like a slave he pants for the shadow,</p>
  <p class="sz">And like a hired laborer he waits for his wages.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter7_verse3"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>3 </sup>
    </b>Thus I have been made to possess worthless lunar months,</p>
  <p class="sz">And nights of trouble they have counted out to me.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter7_verse4"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>4 </sup>
    </b>When I have lain down I have also said, ‘When shall I get up?’</p>
  <p class="sz">And when evening actually goes its measure, I have also been glutted with restlessness until morning twilight.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter7_verse5"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>5 </sup>
    </b>My flesh has become clothed with maggots and lumps of dust;</p>
  <p class="sz">My skin itself has formed crusts and dissolves.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter7_verse6"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>6 </sup>
    </b>My days themselves have become swifter than a weaver’s shuttle,</p>
  <p class="sz">And they come to an end in hopelessness.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter7_verse7"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>7 </sup>
    </b>Remember that my life is wind;</p>
  <p class="sz">That my eye will not see good again.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter7_verse8"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>8 </sup>
    </b>The eye of him that sees me will not behold me;</p>
  <p class="sz">Your eyes will be upon me, but I shall not be.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter7_verse9"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>9 </sup>
    </b>The cloud certainly comes to its end and goes away;</p>
  <p class="sz">So he that is going down to She′ol will not come up.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter7_verse10"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>10 </sup>
    </b>He will not return anymore to his house,</p>
  <p class="sz">And his place will not acknowledge him anymore.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter7_verse11"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>11 </sup>
    </b>I, also, I shall not hold back my mouth.</p>
  <p class="sz">I will speak in the distress of my spirit;</p>
  <p class="sz">I will be concerned with the bitterness of my soul!</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter7_verse12"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>12 </sup>
    </b>Am I a sea or a sea monster,</p>
  <p class="sz">That you should set a guard over me?</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter7_verse13"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>13 </sup>
    </b>When I said, ‘My divan will comfort me,</p>
  <p class="sz">My bed will help carry my concern,’</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter7_verse14"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>14 </sup>
    </b>You even have terrified me with dreams,</p>
  <p class="sz">And by visions you make me start up in fright,</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter7_verse15"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>15 </sup>
    </b>So that my soul chooses suffocation,</p>
  <p class="sz">Death rather than my bones.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter7_verse16"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>16 </sup>
    </b>I have rejected it; to time indefinite I would not live.</p>
  <p class="sz">Cease from me, for my days are an exhalation.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter7_verse17"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>17 </sup>
    </b>What is mortal man that you should rear him,</p>
  <p class="sz">And that you should set your heart upon him,</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter7_verse18"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>18 </sup>
    </b>And that you should pay attention to him every morning,</p>
  <p class="sz">That every moment you should test him?</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter7_verse19"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>19 </sup>
    </b>Why will you not turn your gaze from me,</p>
  <p class="sz">Nor let me alone until I swallow my saliva?</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter7_verse20"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>20 </sup>
    </b>If I have sinned, what can I accomplish against you, the Observer of mankind?</p>
  <p class="sz">Why is it that you have set me as your target, so that I should become a burden to you?</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter7_verse21"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>21 </sup>
    </b>And why do you not pardon my transgression</p>
  <p class="sz">And overlook my error?</p>
  <p class="sp">For now in dust I shall lie down;</p>
  <p class="sz">And you will certainly look for me, and I shall not be.”</p>
</div>