<div>
  <p class="w_biblebookname">Job</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter27"></a>
    <a id="chapter27_verse1"></a>
    <span class="w_ch">
      <b>27 </b>
    </span>And Job proceeded again to lift up his proverbial utterance and went on to say:</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter27_verse2"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>2 </sup>
    </b>“As God lives, who has taken away my judgment,</p>
  <p class="sz">And as the Almighty lives, who has made my soul bitter,</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter27_verse3"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>3 </sup>
    </b>While my breath is yet whole within me,</p>
  <p class="sz">And the spirit of God is in my nostrils,</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter27_verse4"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>4 </sup>
    </b>My lips will speak no unrighteousness</p>
  <p class="sz">And my own tongue will mutter no deceit!</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter27_verse5"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>5 </sup>
    </b>It is unthinkable on my part that I should declare <span class="smcap">YOU </span>men righteous!</p>
  <p class="sz">Until I expire I shall not take away my integrity from myself!</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter27_verse6"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>6 </sup>
    </b>On my justness I have laid hold, and I shall not let it go;</p>
  <p class="sz">My heart will not taunt me for any of my days.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter27_verse7"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>7 </sup>
    </b>Let my enemy become in every way a wicked man,</p>
  <p class="sz">And the one revolting against me really a wrongdoer.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter27_verse8"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>8 </sup>
    </b>For what is the hope of an apostate in case he cuts him off,</p>
  <p class="sz">In case God carries off his soul from him?</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter27_verse9"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>9 </sup>
    </b>Will God hear an outcry of his</p>
  <p class="sz">In case distress comes upon him?</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter27_verse10"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>10 </sup>
    </b>Or in the Almighty will he find exquisite delight?</p>
  <p class="sz">Will he call to God at all times?</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter27_verse11"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>11 </sup>
    </b>I shall instruct <span class="smcap">YOU </span>men by the hand of God;</p>
  <p class="sz">That which is with the Almighty I shall not hide.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter27_verse12"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>12 </sup>
    </b>Look! Y<span class="smcap">OU </span>yourselves have all of <span class="smcap">YOU </span>seen visions;</p>
  <p class="sz">So why is it that <span class="smcap">YOU </span>show yourselves utterly vain?</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter27_verse13"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>13 </sup>
    </b>This is the share of the wicked man from God;</p>
  <p class="sz">And the inheritance of the tyrants they will receive from the Almighty himself.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter27_verse14"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>14 </sup>
    </b>If his sons become many, it is for a sword;</p>
  <p class="sz">And his descendants themselves will not have enough food.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter27_verse15"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>15 </sup>
    </b>His own survivors will be buried during a deadly plague,</p>
  <p class="sz">And their own widows will not weep.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter27_verse16"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>16 </sup>
    </b>If he should pile up silver like dust itself,</p>
  <p class="sz">And he should prepare attire just as if clay,</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter27_verse17"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>17 </sup>
    </b>He would prepare, but the righteous would be the one to clothe himself,</p>
  <p class="sz">And in the silver the innocent would be the one to have a share.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter27_verse18"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>18 </sup>
    </b>He has built his house like a mere moth,</p>
  <p class="sz">And like a booth that a watchman has made.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter27_verse19"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>19 </sup>
    </b>Rich he will lie down, but nothing will be gathered;</p>
  <p class="sz">His eyes he has opened, but there will be nothing.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter27_verse20"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>20 </sup>
    </b>Like waters sudden terrors will overtake him;</p>
  <p class="sz">At night a storm wind will certainly steal him away.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter27_verse21"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>21 </sup>
    </b>An east wind will carry him off and he will go away,</p>
  <p class="sz">And it will whirl him away from his place.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter27_verse22"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>22 </sup>
    </b>And it will hurl itself at him and have no compassion;</p>
  <p class="sz">From its power he will without fail try to run away.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter27_verse23"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>23 </sup>
    </b>One will clap his hands at him</p>
  <p class="sz">And will whistle at him from his place.</p>
</div>