<div>
  <p class="w_biblebookname">Job</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter32"></a>
    <a id="chapter32_verse1"></a>
    <span class="w_ch">
      <b>32 </b>
    </span>So these three men ceased from answering Job, for he was righteous in his own eyes. <a id="chapter32_verse2"></a><b><sup>2 </sup></b>But the anger of E·li′hu the son of Bar′a·chel the Buz′ite of the family of Ram came to be hot. Against Job his anger blazed over his declaring his own soul righteous rather than God. <a id="chapter32_verse3"></a><b><sup>3 </sup></b>Also, against his three companions his anger blazed over the fact that they had not found an answer but they proceeded to pronounce God wicked. <a id="chapter32_verse4"></a><b><sup>4 </sup></b>And E·li′hu himself had waited for Job with words, because they were older than he was in days. <a id="chapter32_verse5"></a><b><sup>5 </sup></b>And E·li′hu gradually saw that there was no answer in the mouth of the three men, and his anger kept getting hotter. <a id="chapter32_verse6"></a><b><sup>6 </sup></b>And E·li′hu the son of Bar′a·chel the Buz′ite proceeded to answer and say:</p>
  <p class="sp">“Young I am in days</p>
  <p class="sz">And <span class="smcap">YOU </span>men are aged.</p>
  <p class="sp">That is why I drew back and was afraid</p>
  <p class="sz">To declare my knowledge to <span class="smcap">YOU </span>men.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter32_verse7"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>7 </sup>
    </b>I said, ‘Days themselves should speak,</p>
  <p class="sz">And a multitude of years are what should make wisdom known.’</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter32_verse8"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>8 </sup>
    </b>Surely it is the spirit in mortal men</p>
  <p class="sz">And the breath of the Almighty that gives them understanding.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter32_verse9"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>9 </sup>
    </b>It is not those merely abundant in days that prove wise,</p>
  <p class="sz">Nor those just old that understand judgment.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter32_verse10"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>10 </sup>
    </b>Therefore I said, ‘Do listen to me.</p>
  <p class="sz">I shall declare my knowledge, even I.’</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter32_verse11"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>11 </sup>
    </b>Look! I have waited for the words of <span class="smcap">YOU </span>men,</p>
  <p class="sz">I kept giving ear to <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>reasonings,</p>
  <p class="sz">Until <span class="smcap">YOU </span>could search for words to say.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter32_verse12"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>12 </sup>
    </b>And to <span class="smcap">YOU </span>I kept my attention turned,</p>
  <p class="sz">And here there is no one reproving Job,</p>
  <p class="sz">None of <span class="smcap">YOU </span>answering his sayings,</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter32_verse13"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>13 </sup>
    </b>That <span class="smcap">YOU </span>may not say, ‘We have found wisdom;</p>
  <p class="sz">It is God that drives him away, not a man.’</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter32_verse14"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>14 </sup>
    </b>As he has not arrayed words against me,</p>
  <p class="sz">So with the sayings of <span class="smcap">YOU </span>men I shall not reply to him.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter32_verse15"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>15 </sup>
    </b>They have been terrified, they have answered no more;</p>
  <p class="sz">Words have moved away from them.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter32_verse16"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>16 </sup>
    </b>And I have waited, for they do not continue speaking;</p>
  <p class="sz">For they stood still, they answered no more.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter32_verse17"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>17 </sup>
    </b>I shall give in answer my part, even I;</p>
  <p class="sz">I shall declare my knowledge, even I;</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter32_verse18"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>18 </sup>
    </b>For I have become full of words;</p>
  <p class="sz">Spirit has brought pressure upon me in my belly.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="page703"></a>
    <a id="chapter32_verse19"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>19 </sup>
    </b>Look! My belly is like wine that has no vent;</p>
  <p class="sz">Like new skin bottles it wants to burst open.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter32_verse20"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>20 </sup>
    </b>Let me speak that it may be a relief to me.</p>
  <p class="sz">I shall open my lips that I may answer.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter32_verse21"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>21 </sup>
    </b>Let me not, please, show partiality to a man;</p>
  <p class="sz">And on an earthling man I shall not bestow a title;</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter32_verse22"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>22 </sup>
    </b>For I certainly do not know how I can bestow a title;</p>
  <p class="sz">Easily my Maker would carry me away.</p>
</div>