<div>
  <p class="w_biblebookname">Job</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter33"></a>
    <a id="chapter33_verse1"></a>
    <span class="w_ch">
      <b>33 </b>
    </span>“Now, however, O Job, please hear my words,</p>
  <p class="sz">And to all my speaking do give ear.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter33_verse2"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>2 </sup>
    </b>Look, please! I have to open my mouth;</p>
  <p class="sz">My tongue with my palate has to speak.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter33_verse3"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>3 </sup>
    </b>My sayings are the uprightness of my heart,</p>
  <p class="sz">And knowledge is what my lips do utter sincerely.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter33_verse4"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>4 </sup>
    </b>God’s own spirit made me,</p>
  <p class="sz">And the Almighty’s own breath proceeded to bring me to life.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter33_verse5"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>5 </sup>
    </b>If you are able, make reply to me,</p>
  <p class="sz">Array words before me; do take your station.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter33_verse6"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>6 </sup>
    </b>Look! I am to the true God just what you are;</p>
  <p class="sz">From the clay I was shaped, I too.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter33_verse7"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>7 </sup>
    </b>Look! No frightfulness in me will terrify you,</p>
  <p class="sz">And no pressure by me will be heavy upon you.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter33_verse8"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>8 </sup>
    </b>Only you have said in my ears,</p>
  <p class="sz">And the sound of your words I kept hearing,</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter33_verse9"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>9 </sup>
    </b>‘I am pure without transgression;</p>
  <p class="sz">Clean I am, and I have no error.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter33_verse10"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>10 </sup>
    </b>Look! Occasions for opposition to me he finds,</p>
  <p class="sz">He takes me for an enemy of his.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter33_verse11"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>11 </sup>
    </b>He puts my feet in the stocks,</p>
  <p class="sz">He watches all my paths.’</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter33_verse12"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>12 </sup>
    </b>Look! In this you have not been in the right, I answer you;</p>
  <p class="sz">For God is much more than mortal man.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter33_verse13"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>13 </sup>
    </b>Why is it against him that you contended,</p>
  <p class="sz">Because all your words he does not answer?</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter33_verse14"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>14 </sup>
    </b>For God speaks once,</p>
  <p class="sz">And twice—though one does not regard it—</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter33_verse15"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>15 </sup>
    </b>In a dream, a vision of the night,</p>
  <p class="sz">When deep sleep falls upon men,</p>
  <p class="sz">During slumbers upon the bed.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter33_verse16"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>16 </sup>
    </b>It is then that he uncovers the ear of men,</p>
  <p class="sz">And on exhortation to them he puts his seal,</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter33_verse17"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>17 </sup>
    </b>To turn aside a man from his deed,</p>
  <p class="sz">And that he may cover pride itself from an able-bodied man.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter33_verse18"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>18 </sup>
    </b>He keeps his soul back from the pit</p>
  <p class="sz">And his life from passing away by a missile.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter33_verse19"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>19 </sup>
    </b>And he is actually reproved with pain upon his bed,</p>
  <p class="sz">And the quarreling of his bones is continual.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter33_verse20"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>20 </sup>
    </b>And his life certainly makes bread loathsome,</p>
  <p class="sz">And his own soul desirable food.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter33_verse21"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>21 </sup>
    </b>His flesh wastes away from sight,</p>
  <p class="sz">And his bones that were not seen certainly grow bare.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter33_verse22"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>22 </sup>
    </b>And his soul draws near to the pit,</p>
  <p class="sz">And his life to those inflicting death.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter33_verse23"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>23 </sup>
    </b>If there exists for him a messenger,</p>
  <p class="sz">A spokesman, one out of a thousand,</p>
  <p class="sz">To tell to man his uprightness,</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter33_verse24"></a>
    <a id="page704"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>24 </sup>
    </b>Then he favors him and says,</p>
  <p class="sz">‘Let him off from going down into the pit!</p>
  <p class="sz">I have found a ransom!</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter33_verse25"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>25 </sup>
    </b>Let his flesh become fresher than in youth;</p>
  <p class="sz">Let him return to the days of his youthful vigor.’</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter33_verse26"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>26 </sup>
    </b>He will make entreaty to God that he may take pleasure in him,</p>
  <p class="sz">And he will see his face with joyful shouting,</p>
  <p class="sz">And He will restore His righteousness to mortal man.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter33_verse27"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>27 </sup>
    </b>He will sing to men and say,</p>
  <p class="sz">‘I have sinned; and what is upright I have perverted,</p>
  <p class="sz">And it certainly was not the proper thing for me.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter33_verse28"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>28 </sup>
    </b>He has redeemed my soul from passing into the pit,</p>
  <p class="sz">And my life itself will see the light.’</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter33_verse29"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>29 </sup>
    </b>Look! All these things God performs,</p>
  <p class="sz">Two times, three times, in the case of an able-bodied man,</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter33_verse30"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>30 </sup>
    </b>To turn his soul back from the pit,</p>
  <p class="sz">That he may be enlightened with the light of those living.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter33_verse31"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>31 </sup>
    </b>Pay attention, O Job! Listen to me!</p>
  <p class="sz">Keep silent, and I myself shall continue speaking.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter33_verse32"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>32 </sup>
    </b>If there are any words to say, make reply to me;</p>
  <p class="sz">Speak, for I have taken delight in your righteousness.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter33_verse33"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>33 </sup>
    </b>If there are none, you yourself listen to me;</p>
  <p class="sz">Keep silent, and I shall teach you wisdom.”</p>
</div>