<div>
  <p class="w_biblebookname">Job</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter5"></a>
    <a id="chapter5_verse1"></a>
    <span class="w_ch">
      <b>5 </b>
    </span>“Call, please! Is there anyone answering you?</p>
  <p class="sz">And to which one of the holy ones will you turn?</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter5_verse2"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>2 </sup>
    </b>For the foolish one vexation will kill,</p>
  <p class="sz">And the one easily enticed envying will put to death.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter5_verse3"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>3 </sup>
    </b>I myself have seen the foolish one taking root,</p>
  <p class="sz">But suddenly I began to execrate his abiding place.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter5_verse4"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>4 </sup>
    </b>His sons remain far from salvation,</p>
  <p class="sz">And they are crushed in the gate without a deliverer.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter5_verse5"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>5 </sup>
    </b>What he harvests the hungry one eats;</p>
  <p class="sz">And even from butcher hooks one takes it,</p>
  <p class="sz">And a snare actually snaps at their means of maintenance.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter5_verse6"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>6 </sup>
    </b>For not from mere dust does what is hurtful go forth,</p>
  <p class="sz">And from mere ground trouble does not spring up.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter5_verse7"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>7 </sup>
    </b>For man himself is born for trouble,</p>
  <p class="sz">As the very sparks fly upward.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter5_verse8"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>8 </sup>
    </b>However, I myself would apply to God,</p>
  <p class="sz">And to God I would submit my cause,</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter5_verse9"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>9 </sup>
    </b>To the One doing great things unsearchable,</p>
  <p class="sz">Wonderful things without number;</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter5_verse10"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>10 </sup>
    </b>To the One giving rain upon the surface of the earth</p>
  <p class="sz">And sending waters upon the open fields;</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter5_verse11"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>11 </sup>
    </b>To the One putting those who are low on a high place,</p>
  <p class="sz">So that those who are sad are high up in salvation;</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter5_verse12"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>12 </sup>
    </b>To the One frustrating the schemes of the shrewd,</p>
  <p class="sz">So that their hands do not work with effect;</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter5_verse13"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>13 </sup>
    </b>To the One catching the wise in their own cunning,</p>
  <p class="sz">
    <a id="page674"></a>So that the counsel of astute ones is carried headlong;</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter5_verse14"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>14 </sup>
    </b>They encounter darkness even by day,</p>
  <p class="sz">And they grope about at midday as if at night;</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter5_verse15"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>15 </sup>
    </b>And to the One saving from the sword out of their mouth,</p>
  <p class="sz">And from the hand of the strong one, a poor one,</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter5_verse16"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>16 </sup>
    </b>So that for the lowly one there comes to be hope,</p>
  <p class="sz">But unrighteousness actually shuts its mouth.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter5_verse17"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>17 </sup>
    </b>Look! Happy is the man whom God reproves;</p>
  <p class="sz">And the discipline of the Almighty do not you reject!</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter5_verse18"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>18 </sup>
    </b>For he himself causes pain, but binds up the wound;</p>
  <p class="sz">He breaks to pieces, but his own hands do the healing.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter5_verse19"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>19 </sup>
    </b>In six distresses he will deliver you,</p>
  <p class="sz">And in seven nothing injurious will touch you.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter5_verse20"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>20 </sup>
    </b>During famine he will certainly redeem you from death,</p>
  <p class="sz">And during war from the power of a sword.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter5_verse21"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>21 </sup>
    </b>From the whip of a tongue you will be hidden,</p>
  <p class="sz">And you will not be afraid of despoiling when it comes.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter5_verse22"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>22 </sup>
    </b>At despoiling and hunger you will laugh,</p>
  <p class="sz">And of the wild beast of the earth you need not be afraid.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter5_verse23"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>23 </sup>
    </b>For with the stones of the field your covenant will be,</p>
  <p class="sz">And the wild beast of the field himself will be made to live at peace with you.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter5_verse24"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>24 </sup>
    </b>And you will certainly know that peace itself is your tent,</p>
  <p class="sz">And you will be bound to go and see your pasture ground, and you will miss nothing.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter5_verse25"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>25 </sup>
    </b>And you will certainly know that your offspring are many</p>
  <p class="sz">And your descendants like the vegetation of the earth.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter5_verse26"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>26 </sup>
    </b>You will come in vigor to the burial place,</p>
  <p class="sz">As when sheaves pile up in their time.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter5_verse27"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>27 </sup>
    </b>Look! This is what we have investigated. So is it.</p>
  <p class="sz">Hear it, and you—know it for yourself.”</p>
</div>