<div>
  <p class="w_biblebookname">Job</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter31"></a>
    <a id="chapter31_verse1"></a>
    <span class="w_ch">
      <b>31 </b>
    </span>“A covenant I have concluded with my eyes.</p>
  <p class="sz">So how could I show myself attentive to a virgin?</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter31_verse2"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>2 </sup>
    </b>And what portion is there from God above,</p>
  <p class="sz">Or inheritance from the Almighty from on high?</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter31_verse3"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>3 </sup>
    </b>Is there not disaster for a wrongdoer,</p>
  <p class="sz">And misfortune for those practicing what is hurtful?</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter31_verse4"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>4 </sup>
    </b>Does he not himself see my ways</p>
  <p class="sz">And count even all my steps?</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter31_verse5"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>5 </sup>
    </b>If I have walked with men of untruth,</p>
  <p class="sz">And my foot hastens to deception,</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter31_verse6"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>6 </sup>
    </b>He will weigh me in accurate scales</p>
  <p class="sz">And God will get to know my integrity.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter31_verse7"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>7 </sup>
    </b>If my stepping deviates from the way,</p>
  <p class="sz">Or my heart has walked merely after my eyes,</p>
  <p class="sz">Or any defect has stuck in my own palms,</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter31_verse8"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>8 </sup>
    </b>Let me sow seed and someone else eat,</p>
  <p class="sz">And let my own descendants be rooted out.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter31_verse9"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>9 </sup>
    </b>If my heart has been enticed toward a woman,</p>
  <p class="sz">And I kept lying in wait at the very entranceway of my companion,</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter31_verse10"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>10 </sup>
    </b>Let my wife do the grinding for another man,</p>
  <p class="sz">And over her let other men kneel down.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter31_verse11"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>11 </sup>
    </b>For that would be loose conduct,</p>
  <p class="sz">And that would be an error for attention by the justices.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter31_verse12"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>12 </sup>
    </b>For that is a fire that would eat clear to destruction,</p>
  <p class="sz">And among all my produce it would take root.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter31_verse13"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>13 </sup>
    </b>If I used to refuse the judgment of my slave man</p>
  <p class="sz">
    <a id="page701"></a>Or of my slave girl in their case at law with me,</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter31_verse14"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>14 </sup>
    </b>Then what can I do when God rises up?</p>
  <p class="sz">And when he calls for an accounting, what can I answer him?</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter31_verse15"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>15 </sup>
    </b>Did not the One making me in the belly make him,</p>
  <p class="sz">And did not just One proceed to prepare us in the womb?</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter31_verse16"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>16 </sup>
    </b>If I used to hold back the lowly ones from their delight,</p>
  <p class="sz">And the eyes of the widow I would cause to fail,</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter31_verse17"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>17 </sup>
    </b>And I used to eat my morsel by myself,</p>
  <p class="sz">While the fatherless boy did not eat from it</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter31_verse18"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>18 </sup>
    </b>(For from my youth he grew up with me as with a father,</p>
  <p class="sz">And from the belly of my mother I kept leading her);</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter31_verse19"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>19 </sup>
    </b>If I used to see anyone perishing from having no garment,</p>
  <p class="sz">Or that the poor one had no covering;</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter31_verse20"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>20 </sup>
    </b>If his loins did not bless me,</p>
  <p class="sz">Nor from the shorn wool of my young rams he would warm himself;</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter31_verse21"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>21 </sup>
    </b>If I waved my hand to and fro against the fatherless boy,</p>
  <p class="sz">When I would see need of my assistance in the gate,</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter31_verse22"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>22 </sup>
    </b>Let my own shoulder blade fall from its shoulder,</p>
  <p class="sz">And let my own arm be broken from its upper bone.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter31_verse23"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>23 </sup>
    </b>For disaster from God was a dread to me,</p>
  <p class="sz">And against his dignity I could not hold out.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter31_verse24"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>24 </sup>
    </b>If I have put gold as my confidence,</p>
  <p class="sz">Or to gold I have said, ‘You are my trust!’</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter31_verse25"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>25 </sup>
    </b>If I used to rejoice because my property was much,</p>
  <p class="sz">And because my hand had found a lot of things;</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter31_verse26"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>26 </sup>
    </b>If I used to see the light when it would flash forth,</p>
  <p class="sz">Or the precious moon walking along,</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter31_verse27"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>27 </sup>
    </b>And my heart began to be enticed in secrecy</p>
  <p class="sz">And my hand proceeded to kiss my mouth,</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter31_verse28"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>28 </sup>
    </b>That too would be an error for attention by the justices,</p>
  <p class="sz">For I should have denied the true God above.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter31_verse29"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>29 </sup>
    </b>If I used to rejoice at the extinction of one intensely hating me,</p>
  <p class="sz">Or I felt excited because evil had found him—</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter31_verse30"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>30 </sup>
    </b>And I did not allow my palate to sin</p>
  <p class="sz">By asking for an oath against his soul.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter31_verse31"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>31 </sup>
    </b>If the men of my tent did not say,</p>
  <p class="sz">‘Who can produce anyone that has not been satisfied from food of his?’—</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter31_verse32"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>32 </sup>
    </b>Outside no alien resident would spend the night;</p>
  <p class="sz">My doors I kept open to the path.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter31_verse33"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>33 </sup>
    </b>If like an earthling man I covered over my transgressions</p>
  <p class="sz">By hiding my error in my shirt pocket—</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter31_verse34"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>34 </sup>
    </b>Because I would suffer a shock at a large crowd,</p>
  <p class="sz">Or the contempt itself of families would terrorize me</p>
  <p class="sl">And I would keep silent, I would not go out of the entrance.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter31_verse35"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>35 </sup>
    </b>O that I had someone listening to me,</p>
  <p class="sz">That according to my signature the Almighty himself would answer me!</p>
  <p class="sz">Or that the individual in the case at law with me <a id="page702"></a>had written a document itself!</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter31_verse36"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>36 </sup>
    </b>Surely upon my shoulder I would carry it;</p>
  <p class="sz">I would bind it around me like a grand crown.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter31_verse37"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>37 </sup>
    </b>The number of my steps I would tell him;</p>
  <p class="sz">Like a leader I would approach him.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter31_verse38"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>38 </sup>
    </b>If against me my own ground would cry for aid,</p>
  <p class="sz">And together its furrows themselves would weep;</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter31_verse39"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>39 </sup>
    </b>If its fruitage I have eaten without money,</p>
  <p class="sz">And the soul of its owners I have caused to pant,</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter31_verse40"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>40 </sup>
    </b>Instead of wheat let the thorny weed go forth,</p>
  <p class="sz">And instead of barley stinking weeds.”</p>
  <p class="sb">The words of Job have come to an end.</p>
</div>