<div>
  <p class="w_biblebookname">Psalms</p>
  <p class="sw">To the director on The Lilies. Of David.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter69"></a>
    <a id="chapter69_verse1"></a>
    <span class="w_ch">
      <b>69 </b>
    </span>Save me, O God, for the waters have come clear to the soul.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter69_verse2"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>2 </sup>
    </b>I have sunk down in deep mire, where there is no standing ground.</p>
  <p class="sz">I have come into profound waters,</p>
  <p class="sz">And a flowing stream itself has washed me away.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter69_verse3"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>3 </sup>
    </b>I have become tired by my calling out;</p>
  <p class="sz">My throat has become hoarse.</p>
  <p class="sz">My eyes have failed while waiting for my God.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter69_verse4"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>4 </sup>
    </b>Those hating me without a cause have become even more than the hairs of my head.</p>
  <p class="sz">Those bringing me to silence, being my enemies for no reason, have become numerous.</p>
  <p class="sz">What I had not taken by robbery I then proceeded to give back.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter69_verse5"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>5 </sup>
    </b>O God, you yourself have come to know my foolishness,</p>
  <p class="sz">And from you my own guiltiness has not been hidden.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="page768"></a>
    <a id="chapter69_verse6"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>6 </sup>
    </b>O may those hoping in you not be ashamed because of me,</p>
  <p class="sz">O Sovereign Lord, Jehovah of armies.</p>
  <p class="sp">O may those seeking you not be humiliated because of me,</p>
  <p class="sz">O God of Israel.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter69_verse7"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>7 </sup>
    </b>For on your account I have borne reproach,</p>
  <p class="sz">Humiliation has covered my face.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter69_verse8"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>8 </sup>
    </b>I have become one estranged to my brothers,</p>
  <p class="sz">And a foreigner to the sons of my mother.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter69_verse9"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>9 </sup>
    </b>For sheer zeal for your house has eaten me up,</p>
  <p class="sz">And the very reproaches of those reproaching you have fallen upon me.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter69_verse10"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>10 </sup>
    </b>And I proceeded to weep with the fasting of my soul,</p>
  <p class="sz">But it came to be for reproaches to me.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter69_verse11"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>11 </sup>
    </b>When I made sackcloth my clothing,</p>
  <p class="sz">Then I became to them a proverbial saying.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter69_verse12"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>12 </sup>
    </b>Those sitting in the gate began concerning themselves about me,</p>
  <p class="sz">And I was the subject of the songs of drinkers of intoxicating liquor.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter69_verse13"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>13 </sup>
    </b>But as for me, my prayer was to you, O Jehovah,</p>
  <p class="sz">At an acceptable time, O God.</p>
  <p class="sz">In the abundance of your loving-kindness answer me with the truth of salvation by you.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter69_verse14"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>14 </sup>
    </b>Deliver me from the mire, that I may not sink down.</p>
  <p class="sz">O may I be delivered from those hating me and from the deep waters.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter69_verse15"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>15 </sup>
    </b>O may not the flowing stream of waters wash me away,</p>
  <p class="sz">Nor the depth swallow me up,</p>
  <p class="sz">Nor the well close its mouth over me.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter69_verse16"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>16 </sup>
    </b>Answer me, O Jehovah, for your loving-kindness is good.</p>
  <p class="sz">According to the multitude of your mercies turn to me,</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter69_verse17"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>17 </sup>
    </b>And do not conceal your face from your servant.</p>
  <p class="sz">Because I am in sore straits, answer me quickly.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter69_verse18"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>18 </sup>
    </b>Do come near to my soul, reclaim it;</p>
  <p class="sz">On account of my enemies redeem me.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter69_verse19"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>19 </sup>
    </b>You yourself have come to know my reproach and my shame and my humiliation.</p>
  <p class="sz">All those showing hostility to me are in front of you.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter69_verse20"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>20 </sup>
    </b>Reproach itself has broken my heart, and the wound is incurable.</p>
  <p class="sz">And I kept hoping for someone to show sympathy, but there was none;</p>
  <p class="sz">And for comforters, but I found none.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter69_verse21"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>21 </sup>
    </b>But for food they gave me a poisonous plant,</p>
  <p class="sz">And for my thirst they tried to make me drink vinegar.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter69_verse22"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>22 </sup>
    </b>Let their table before them become a trap,</p>
  <p class="sz">And what is for their welfare a snare.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter69_verse23"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>23 </sup>
    </b>Let their eyes become darkened so as not to see;</p>
  <p class="sz">And cause their very hips to wobble constantly.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter69_verse24"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>24 </sup>
    </b>Pour out upon them your denunciation,</p>
  <p class="sz">And may your own burning anger overtake them.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter69_verse25"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>25 </sup>
    </b>Let their walled camp become desolate;</p>
  <p class="sz">
    <a id="page769"></a>In their tents may there come to be no dweller.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter69_verse26"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>26 </sup>
    </b>For the one whom you yourself have struck they have pursued,</p>
  <p class="sz">And the pains of those pierced by you they keep recounting.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter69_verse27"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>27 </sup>
    </b>Do give error upon their error,</p>
  <p class="sz">And may they not come into your righteousness.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter69_verse28"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>28 </sup>
    </b>Let them be wiped out of the book of the living ones,</p>
  <p class="sz">And with the righteous ones may they not be written in.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter69_verse29"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>29 </sup>
    </b>But I am afflicted and aching.</p>
  <p class="sz">May your own salvation, O God, protect me.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter69_verse30"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>30 </sup>
    </b>I will praise the name of God with song,</p>
  <p class="sz">And I will magnify him with thanksgiving.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter69_verse31"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>31 </sup>
    </b>This will also be more pleasing to Jehovah than a bull,</p>
  <p class="sz">Than a young bull displaying horns, splitting the hoof.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter69_verse32"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>32 </sup>
    </b>The meek ones will certainly see it; they will rejoice.</p>
  <p class="sz">Y<span class="smcap">OU </span>who are seeking God, let <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>heart also keep alive.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter69_verse33"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>33 </sup>
    </b>For Jehovah is listening to the poor ones,</p>
  <p class="sz">And he will indeed not despise his very own prisoners.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter69_verse34"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>34 </sup>
    </b>Let heaven and earth praise him,</p>
  <p class="sz">The seas and everything moving about in them.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter69_verse35"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>35 </sup>
    </b>For God himself will save Zion</p>
  <p class="sz">And will build the cities of Judah;</p>
  <p class="sz">And they will certainly dwell there and take possession of it.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter69_verse36"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>36 </sup>
    </b>And the offspring of his servants themselves will inherit it,</p>
  <p class="sz">And those loving his name will be the ones to reside in it.</p>
</div>