<div>
  <p class="w_biblebookname">Psalms</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter104"></a>
    <a id="chapter104_verse1"></a>
    <span class="w_ch">
      <b>104 </b>
    </span>Bless Jehovah, O my soul.</p>
  <p class="sz">O Jehovah my God, you have proved very great.</p>
  <p class="sz">With dignity and splendor you have clothed yourself,</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter104_verse2"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>2 </sup>
    </b>Enwrapping yourself with light as with a garment,</p>
  <p class="sz">Stretching out the heavens like a tent cloth,</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter104_verse3"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>3 </sup>
    </b>The One building his upper chambers with beams in the very waters,</p>
  <p class="sz">
    <a id="page799"></a>Making the clouds his chariot,</p>
  <p class="sz">Walking upon the wings of the wind,</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter104_verse4"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>4 </sup>
    </b>Making his angels spirits,</p>
  <p class="sz">His ministers a devouring fire.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter104_verse5"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>5 </sup>
    </b>He has founded the earth upon its established places;</p>
  <p class="sz">It will not be made to totter to time indefinite, or forever.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter104_verse6"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>6 </sup>
    </b>With a watery deep just like a garment you covered it.</p>
  <p class="sz">The waters were standing above the very mountains.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter104_verse7"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>7 </sup>
    </b>At your rebuke they began to flee;</p>
  <p class="sz">At the sound of your thunder they were sent running in panic—</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter104_verse8"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>8 </sup>
    </b>Mountains proceeded to ascend,</p>
  <p class="sz">Valley plains proceeded to descend—</p>
  <p class="sz">To the place that you have founded for them.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter104_verse9"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>9 </sup>
    </b>A boundary you set, beyond which they should not pass,</p>
  <p class="sz">That they should not again cover the earth.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter104_verse10"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>10 </sup>
    </b>He is sending springs into the torrent valleys;</p>
  <p class="sz">Between the mountains they keep going on.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter104_verse11"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>11 </sup>
    </b>They continually give drink to all the wild beasts of the open field;</p>
  <p class="sz">The zebras regularly quench their thirst.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter104_verse12"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>12 </sup>
    </b>Above them roost the flying creatures of the heavens;</p>
  <p class="sz">From among the thick foliage they keep giving forth sound.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter104_verse13"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>13 </sup>
    </b>He is watering the mountains from his upper chambers.</p>
  <p class="sz">With the fruitage of your works the earth is satisfied.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter104_verse14"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>14 </sup>
    </b>He is making green grass sprout for the beasts,</p>
  <p class="sz">And vegetation for the service of mankind,</p>
  <p class="sz">To cause food to go forth from the earth,</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter104_verse15"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>15 </sup>
    </b>And wine that makes the heart of mortal man rejoice,</p>
  <p class="sz">To make the face shine with oil,</p>
  <p class="sl">And bread that sustains the very heart of mortal man.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter104_verse16"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>16 </sup>
    </b>The trees of Jehovah are satisfied,</p>
  <p class="sz">The cedars of Leb′a·non that he planted,</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter104_verse17"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>17 </sup>
    </b>Where the birds themselves make nests.</p>
  <p class="sz">As for the stork, the juniper trees are its house.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter104_verse18"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>18 </sup>
    </b>The high mountains are for the mountain goats;</p>
  <p class="sz">The crags are a refuge for the rock badgers.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter104_verse19"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>19 </sup>
    </b>He has made the moon for appointed times;</p>
  <p class="sz">The sun itself knows well where it sets.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter104_verse20"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>20 </sup>
    </b>You cause darkness, that it may become night;</p>
  <p class="sz">In it all the wild animals of the forest move forth.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter104_verse21"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>21 </sup>
    </b>The maned young lions are roaring for the prey</p>
  <p class="sz">And for seeking their food from God himself.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter104_verse22"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>22 </sup>
    </b>The sun begins to shine—they withdraw</p>
  <p class="sz">And they lie down in their own hiding places.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter104_verse23"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>23 </sup>
    </b>Man goes forth to his activity</p>
  <p class="sz">And to his service until evening.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter104_verse24"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>24 </sup>
    </b>How many your works are, O Jehovah!</p>
  <p class="sz">All of them in wisdom you have made.</p>
  <p class="sz">The earth is full of your productions.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter104_verse25"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>25 </sup>
    </b>As for this sea so great and wide,</p>
  <p class="sz">There there are moving <a id="page800"></a>things without number,</p>
  <p class="sz">Living creatures, small as well as great.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter104_verse26"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>26 </sup>
    </b>There the ships go;</p>
  <p class="sz">As for Le·vi′a·than, him you have formed to play about in it.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter104_verse27"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>27 </sup>
    </b>All of them—for you they keep waiting</p>
  <p class="sz">To give them their food in its season.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter104_verse28"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>28 </sup>
    </b>What you give them they pick up.</p>
  <p class="sz">You open your hand—they get satisfied with good things.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter104_verse29"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>29 </sup>
    </b>If you conceal your face, they get disturbed.</p>
  <p class="sz">If you take away their spirit, they expire,</p>
  <p class="sz">And back to their dust they go.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter104_verse30"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>30 </sup>
    </b>If you send forth your spirit, they are created;</p>
  <p class="sz">And you make the face of the ground new.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter104_verse31"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>31 </sup>
    </b>The glory of Jehovah will prove to be to time indefinite.</p>
  <p class="sz">Jehovah will rejoice in his works.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter104_verse32"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>32 </sup>
    </b>He is looking at the earth, and it trembles;</p>
  <p class="sz">He touches the mountains, and they smoke.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter104_verse33"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>33 </sup>
    </b>I will sing to Jehovah throughout my life;</p>
  <p class="sz">I will make melody to my God as long as I am.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter104_verse34"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>34 </sup>
    </b>Let my musing about him be pleasurable.</p>
  <p class="sz">I, for my part, shall rejoice in Jehovah.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter104_verse35"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>35 </sup>
    </b>The sinners will be finished off from the earth;</p>
  <p class="sz">And as for the wicked, they will be no longer.</p>
  <p class="sz">Bless Jehovah, O my soul. Praise Jah, <span class="smcap">YOU </span>people!</p>
</div>