<div>
  <p class="w_biblebookname">Psalms</p>
  <p class="sw">To the director. “Do not bring to ruin.” Of David. Mik′tam. When Saul sent, and they kept watching the house, to put him to death.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter59"></a>
    <a id="chapter59_verse1"></a>
    <span class="w_ch">
      <b>59 </b>
    </span>Deliver me from my enemies, O my God;</p>
  <p class="sz">From those rising up against me may you protect me.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter59_verse2"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>2 </sup>
    </b>Deliver me from the practicers of what is hurtful,</p>
  <p class="sz">And from bloodguilty men save me.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter59_verse3"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>3 </sup>
    </b>For, look! they have lain in wait for my soul;</p>
  <p class="sz">Strong ones make an attack upon me,</p>
  <p class="sz">For no revolt on my part, nor any sin on my part, O Jehovah.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter59_verse4"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>4 </sup>
    </b>Though there is no error, they run and get themselves ready.</p>
  <p class="sz">Do rouse yourself at my calling and see.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter59_verse5"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>5 </sup>
    </b>And you, O Jehovah God of armies, are the God of Israel.</p>
  <p class="sz">Do wake up to turn your attention to all the nations.</p>
  <p class="sz">Do not show favor to any hurtful traitors. <i>Se′lah.</i></p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter59_verse6"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>6 </sup>
    </b>They keep returning at evening time;</p>
  <p class="sz">They keep barking like a dog and go all around the city.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter59_verse7"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>7 </sup>
    </b>Look! They make a bubbling forth with their mouth;</p>
  <p class="sz">Swords are on their lips,</p>
  <p class="sz">For who is listening?</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter59_verse8"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>8 </sup>
    </b>But you yourself, O Jehovah, will laugh at them;</p>
  <p class="sz">You will hold all the nations in derision.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter59_verse9"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>9 </sup>
    </b>O my Strength, toward you I will keep watch;</p>
  <p class="sz">For God is my secure height.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter59_verse10"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>10 </sup>
    </b>The God of loving-kindness to me will himself confront me;</p>
  <p class="sz">God himself will cause me to look upon my foes.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter59_verse11"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>11 </sup>
    </b>Do not kill them, that my people may not forget.</p>
  <p class="sz">By your vital energy make them wander about,</p>
  <p class="sz">And bring them down, O our shield Jehovah,</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter59_verse12"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>12 </sup>
    </b>For the sin of their mouth, the word of their lips;</p>
  <p class="sz">And may they be caught in their pride,</p>
  <p class="sz">Even for the cursing and the deception that they rehearse.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter59_verse13"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>13 </sup>
    </b>Bring them to an end in rage;</p>
  <p class="sz">Bring them to an end, that they may not be;</p>
  <p class="sz">And may they know that God is ruling in Jacob to the ends of the earth. <i>Se′lah.</i></p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter59_verse14"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>14 </sup>
    </b>And let them return at evening time;</p>
  <p class="sz">Let them bark like a dog and go all around the city.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter59_verse15"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>15 </sup>
    </b>Let those very ones wander about for something to eat;</p>
  <p class="sz">Let them not be satisfied or stay overnight.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter59_verse16"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>16 </sup>
    </b>But as for me, I shall sing of your strength,</p>
  <p class="sz">And in the morning I shall joyfully tell about your loving-kindness.</p>
  <p class="sp">For you have proved to be a secure height for me</p>
  <p class="sz">And a place to which to flee in the day of my distress.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter59_verse17"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>17 </sup>
    </b>O my Strength, to you I will make melody,</p>
  <p class="sz">For God is my secure height, the God of loving-kindness to me.</p>
</div>