<div>
  <p class="w_biblebookname">Psalms</p>
  <p class="sw">To the director. “Do not bring to ruin.” Of David. Mik′tam. When he ran away because of Saul, into the cave.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter57"></a>
    <a id="chapter57_verse1"></a>
    <span class="w_ch">
      <b>57 </b>
    </span>Show me favor, O God, show me favor,</p>
  <p class="sz">For in you my soul has taken refuge;</p>
  <p class="sz">And in the shadow of your wings I take refuge <a id="page759"></a>until the adversities pass over.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter57_verse2"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>2 </sup>
    </b>I call to God the Most High, to the true God who is bringing them to an end on my account.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter57_verse3"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>3 </sup>
    </b>He will send from heaven and save me.</p>
  <p class="sz">He will certainly confuse the one snapping at me. <i>Se′lah.</i></p>
  <p class="sz">God will send his loving-kindness and his trueness.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter57_verse4"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>4 </sup>
    </b>My soul is in the middle of lions;</p>
  <p class="sz">I cannot but lie down among devourers, even the sons of men,</p>
  <p class="sp">Whose teeth are spears and arrows,</p>
  <p class="sz">And whose tongue is a sharp sword.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter57_verse5"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>5 </sup>
    </b>O be exalted above the heavens, O God;</p>
  <p class="sz">Let your glory be above all the earth.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter57_verse6"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>6 </sup>
    </b>A net they have prepared for my steps;</p>
  <p class="sz">My soul has become bowed down.</p>
  <p class="sp">They excavated before me a pitfall;</p>
  <p class="sz">They have fallen into the midst of it. <i>Se′lah.</i></p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter57_verse7"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>7 </sup>
    </b>My heart is steadfast, O God,</p>
  <p class="sz">My heart is steadfast.</p>
  <p class="sz">I will sing and make melody.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter57_verse8"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>8 </sup>
    </b>Do awake, O my glory;</p>
  <p class="sz">Do awake, O stringed instrument; you too, O harp.</p>
  <p class="sb">I will awaken the dawn.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter57_verse9"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>9 </sup>
    </b>I shall laud you among the peoples, O Jehovah;</p>
  <p class="sz">I shall make melody to you among the national groups.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter57_verse10"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>10 </sup>
    </b>For your loving-kindness is great up to the heavens,</p>
  <p class="sz">And your trueness up to the skies.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter57_verse11"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>11 </sup>
    </b>Do be exalted above the heavens, O God;</p>
  <p class="sz">Let your glory be above all the earth.</p>
</div>