<div>
  <p class="w_biblebookname">Psalms</p>
  <p class="sw">For the director. A melody of David.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter140"></a>
    <a id="chapter140_verse1"></a>
    <span class="w_ch">
      <b>140 </b>
    </span>Rescue me, O Jehovah, from bad men;</p>
  <p class="sz">May you safeguard me even from the man of deeds of violence,</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter140_verse2"></a>
    <a id="page831"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>2 </sup>
    </b>Those who have schemed bad things in their heart,</p>
  <p class="sz">Who all day long keep attacking as in wars.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter140_verse3"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>3 </sup>
    </b>They have sharpened their tongue like that of a serpent;</p>
  <p class="sz">The venom of the horned viper is under their lips. <i>Se′lah.</i></p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter140_verse4"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>4 </sup>
    </b>Keep me, O Jehovah, from the hands of the wicked one;</p>
  <p class="sz">May you safeguard me even from the man of deeds of violence,</p>
  <p class="sz">Those who have schemed to push my steps.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter140_verse5"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>5 </sup>
    </b>The self-exalted ones have hidden a trap for me;</p>
  <p class="sz">And ropes they have spread out as a net at the side of the track.</p>
  <p class="sz">Snares they have set for me. <i>Se′lah.</i></p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter140_verse6"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>6 </sup>
    </b>I have said to Jehovah: “You are my God.</p>
  <p class="sz">Do give ear, O Jehovah, to the voice of my entreaties.”</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter140_verse7"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>7 </sup>
    </b>O Jehovah the Sovereign Lord, the strength of my salvation,</p>
  <p class="sz">You have screened over my head in the day of the armed force.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter140_verse8"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>8 </sup>
    </b>Do not grant, O Jehovah, the cravings of the wicked one.</p>
  <p class="sz">Do not promote his plotting, that they may not be exalted. <i>Se′lah.</i></p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter140_verse9"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>9 </sup>
    </b>As for the heads of those surrounding me,</p>
  <p class="sz">May the trouble of their own lips cover them.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter140_verse10"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>10 </sup>
    </b>May burning coals be dropped upon them.</p>
  <p class="sz">Let them be made to fall into the fire, into watery pits, that they may not get up.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter140_verse11"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>11 </sup>
    </b>The big talker—let him not be firmly established in the earth.</p>
  <p class="sz">The man of violence—let evil itself hunt him with repeated thrusts.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter140_verse12"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>12 </sup>
    </b>I well know that Jehovah will execute</p>
  <p class="sz">The legal claim of the afflicted one, the judgment of the poor ones.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter140_verse13"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>13 </sup>
    </b>Surely the righteous themselves will give thanks to your name;</p>
  <p class="sz">The upright ones will dwell before your face.</p>
</div>