<div>
  <p class="w_biblebookname">Psalms</p>
  <p class="sw">A melody of David.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter29"></a>
    <a id="chapter29_verse1"></a>
    <span class="w_ch">
      <b>29 </b>
    </span>Ascribe to Jehovah, O <span class="smcap">YOU </span>sons of strong ones,</p>
  <p class="sz">Ascribe to Jehovah glory and strength.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter29_verse2"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>2 </sup>
    </b>Ascribe to Jehovah the glory of his name.</p>
  <p class="sz">Bow down to Jehovah in holy adornment.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter29_verse3"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>3 </sup>
    </b>The voice of Jehovah is over the waters;</p>
  <p class="sz">The glorious God himself has thundered.</p>
  <p class="sz">Jehovah is over many waters.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter29_verse4"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>4 </sup>
    </b>The voice of Jehovah is powerful;</p>
  <p class="sz">The voice of Jehovah is splendid.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="page735"></a>
    <a id="chapter29_verse5"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>5 </sup>
    </b>The voice of Jehovah is breaking the cedars;</p>
  <p class="sz">Yes, Jehovah breaks the cedars of Leb′a·non in pieces,</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter29_verse6"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>6 </sup>
    </b>And he makes them skip about like a calf,</p>
  <p class="sz">Leb′a·non and Sir′i·on like the sons of wild bulls.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter29_verse7"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>7 </sup>
    </b>The voice of Jehovah is hewing with the flames of fire;</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter29_verse8"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>8 </sup>
    </b>The voice of Jehovah itself makes the wilderness writhe,</p>
  <p class="sz">Jehovah makes the wilderness of Ka′desh writhe.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter29_verse9"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>9 </sup>
    </b>The voice of Jehovah itself makes the hinds writhe with birth pains</p>
  <p class="sz">And strips bare the forests.</p>
  <p class="sz">And in his temple each one is saying: “Glory!”</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter29_verse10"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>10 </sup>
    </b>Upon the deluge Jehovah has seated himself;</p>
  <p class="sz">And Jehovah sits as king to time indefinite.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter29_verse11"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>11 </sup>
    </b>Jehovah himself will give strength indeed to his people.</p>
  <p class="sz">Jehovah himself will bless his people with peace.</p>
</div>