<div>
  <p class="w_biblebookname">Psalms</p>
  <p class="sw">
    <a id="page717"></a>To the director for Ne′hi·loth. A melody of David.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter5"></a>
    <a id="chapter5_verse1"></a>
    <span class="w_ch">
      <b>5 </b>
    </span>To my sayings do give ear, O Jehovah;</p>
  <p class="sz">Do understand my sighing.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter5_verse2"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>2 </sup>
    </b>Do pay attention to the sound of my cry for help,</p>
  <p class="sz">O my King and my God, because to you I pray.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter5_verse3"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>3 </sup>
    </b>O Jehovah, in the morning you will hear my voice;</p>
  <p class="sz">In the morning I shall address myself to you and be on the watch.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter5_verse4"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>4 </sup>
    </b>For you are not a God taking delight in wickedness;</p>
  <p class="sz">No one bad may reside for any time with you.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter5_verse5"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>5 </sup>
    </b>No boasters may take their stand in front of your eyes.</p>
  <p class="sz">You do hate all those practicing what is hurtful;</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter5_verse6"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>6 </sup>
    </b>You will destroy those speaking a lie.</p>
  <p class="sz">A man of bloodshed and deception Jehovah detests.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter5_verse7"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>7 </sup>
    </b>As for me, in the abundance of your loving-kindness</p>
  <p class="sz">I shall come into your house,</p>
  <p class="sz">I shall bow down toward your holy temple in fear of you.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter5_verse8"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>8 </sup>
    </b>O Jehovah, lead me in your righteousness by reason of my foes;</p>
  <p class="sz">Make your way smooth before me.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter5_verse9"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>9 </sup>
    </b>For in their mouth there is nothing trustworthy;</p>
  <p class="sz">Their inward part is adversity indeed.</p>
  <p class="sp">Their throat is an opened burial place;</p>
  <p class="sz">A smooth tongue they use.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter5_verse10"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>10 </sup>
    </b>God will certainly hold them guilty;</p>
  <p class="sz">They will fall due to their own counsels.</p>
  <p class="sp">In the multitude of their transgressions let there be a dispersing of them,</p>
  <p class="sz">Because they have rebelled against you.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter5_verse11"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>11 </sup>
    </b>But all those taking refuge in you will rejoice;</p>
  <p class="sz">To time indefinite they will cry out joyfully.</p>
  <p class="sp">And you will block approach to them,</p>
  <p class="sz">And those loving your name will exult in you.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter5_verse12"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>12 </sup>
    </b>For you yourself will bless anyone righteous, O Jehovah;</p>
  <p class="sz">As with a large shield, with approval you will surround them.</p>
</div>