<div>
  <p class="w_biblebookname">Psalms</p>
  <p class="sw">For the director upon the Git′tith. Of the sons of Ko′rah. A melody.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter84"></a>
    <a id="chapter84_verse1"></a>
    <span class="w_ch">
      <b>84 </b>
    </span>How lovely your grand tabernacle is,</p>
  <p class="sz">O Jehovah of armies!</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter84_verse2"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>2 </sup>
    </b>My soul has yearned and also pined away for the courtyards of Jehovah.</p>
  <p class="sz">My own heart and my very flesh cry out joyfully to the living God.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter84_verse3"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>3 </sup>
    </b>Even the bird itself has found a house,</p>
  <p class="sz">And the swallow a nest for herself,</p>
  <p class="sp">Where she has put her young ones—</p>
  <p class="sz">Your grand altar, O Jehovah of armies, my King and my God!</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter84_verse4"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>4 </sup>
    </b>Happy are those dwelling in your house!</p>
  <p class="sz">They still keep on praising you. <i>Se′lah.</i></p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter84_verse5"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>5 </sup>
    </b>Happy are the men whose strength is in you,</p>
  <p class="sz">In whose heart are the highways.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter84_verse6"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>6 </sup>
    </b>Passing along through the low plain of the ba′ca bushes,</p>
  <p class="sz">They turn it into a spring itself;</p>
  <p class="sz">Even with blessings the instructor enwraps himself.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter84_verse7"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>7 </sup>
    </b>They will walk on from vital energy to vital energy;</p>
  <p class="sz">Each one appears to God in Zion.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter84_verse8"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>8 </sup>
    </b>O Jehovah God of armies, do hear my prayer;</p>
  <p class="sz">Do give ear, O God of Jacob. <i>Se′lah.</i></p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter84_verse9"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>9 </sup>
    </b>O shield of ours, see, O God,</p>
  <p class="sz">And look upon the face of your anointed one.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter84_verse10"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>10 </sup>
    </b>For a day in your courtyards is better than a thousand elsewhere.</p>
  <p class="sz">I have chosen to stand at the threshold in the house of my God</p>
  <p class="sz">
    <a id="page784"></a>Rather than to move around in the tents of wickedness.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter84_verse11"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>11 </sup>
    </b>For Jehovah God is a sun and a shield;</p>
  <p class="sz">Favor and glory are what he gives.</p>
  <p class="sz">Jehovah himself will not hold back anything good from those walking in faultlessness.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter84_verse12"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>12 </sup>
    </b>O Jehovah of armies, happy is the man that is trusting in you.</p>
</div>