<div>
  <p class="w_biblebookname">Psalms</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter97"></a>
    <a id="chapter97_verse1"></a>
    <span class="w_ch">
      <b>97 </b>
    </span>Jehovah himself has become king! Let the earth be joyful.</p>
  <p class="sz">Let the many islands rejoice.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter97_verse2"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>2 </sup>
    </b>Clouds and thick gloom are all around him;</p>
  <p class="sz">Righteousness and judgment are the established place of his throne.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter97_verse3"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>3 </sup>
    </b>Before him a very fire goes,</p>
  <p class="sz">And it consumes his adversaries all around.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter97_verse4"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>4 </sup>
    </b>His lightnings lighted up the productive land;</p>
  <p class="sz">The earth saw and came to be in severe pains.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter97_verse5"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>5 </sup>
    </b>The mountains themselves proceeded to melt just like wax on account of Jehovah,</p>
  <p class="sz">On account of the Lord of the whole earth.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter97_verse6"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>6 </sup>
    </b>The heavens have told forth his righteousness,</p>
  <p class="sz">And all the peoples have seen his glory.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter97_verse7"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>7 </sup>
    </b>Let all those serving any carved image be ashamed,</p>
  <p class="sz">Those who are making their boast in valueless gods.</p>
  <p class="sz">Bow down to him, all <span class="smcap">YOU </span>gods.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter97_verse8"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>8 </sup>
    </b>Zion heard and began to rejoice,</p>
  <p class="sz">And the dependent towns of Judah began to be joyful</p>
  <p class="sz">By reason of your judicial decisions, O Jehovah.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter97_verse9"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>9 </sup>
    </b>For you, O Jehovah, are the Most High over all the earth;</p>
  <p class="sz">You are very high in your ascent over all other gods.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter97_verse10"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>10 </sup>
    </b>O <span class="smcap">YOU </span>lovers of Jehovah, hate what is bad.</p>
  <p class="sz">He is guarding the souls of his loyal ones;</p>
  <p class="sz">Out of the hand of the wicked ones he delivers them.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter97_verse11"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>11 </sup>
    </b>Light itself has flashed up for the righteous one,</p>
  <p class="sz">And rejoicing even for the ones upright in heart.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter97_verse12"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>12 </sup>
    </b>Rejoice in Jehovah, O <span class="smcap">YOU </span>righteous ones,</p>
  <p class="sz">And give thanks to his holy memorial.</p>
</div>