<div>
  <p class="w_biblebookname">Psalms</p>
  <p class="sw">
    <a id="page762"></a>To the director of Je·du′thun. A melody of David.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter62"></a>
    <a id="chapter62_verse1"></a>
    <span class="w_ch">
      <b>62 </b>
    </span>Indeed toward God is my soul waiting in silence.</p>
  <p class="sz">From him my salvation is.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter62_verse2"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>2 </sup>
    </b>Indeed he is my rock and my salvation, my secure height;</p>
  <p class="sz">I shall not be made to totter very much.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter62_verse3"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>3 </sup>
    </b>How long will <span class="smcap">YOU </span>carry on frantically against the man whom <span class="smcap">YOU </span>would murder?</p>
  <p class="sz">All of <span class="smcap">YOU </span>are like a leaning wall, a stone wall that is being pushed in.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter62_verse4"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>4 </sup>
    </b>Indeed they give advice so as to allure from one’s own dignity;</p>
  <p class="sz">They take pleasure in a lie.</p>
  <p class="sz">With their mouth they bless, but inside themselves they call down evil. <i>Se′lah.</i></p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter62_verse5"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>5 </sup>
    </b>Indeed toward God wait silently, O my soul,</p>
  <p class="sz">Because from him is my hope.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter62_verse6"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>6 </sup>
    </b>Indeed he is my rock and my salvation, my secure height;</p>
  <p class="sz">I shall not be made to totter.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter62_verse7"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>7 </sup>
    </b>Upon God are my salvation and my glory.</p>
  <p class="sz">My strong rock, my refuge is in God.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter62_verse8"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>8 </sup>
    </b>Trust in him at all times, O people.</p>
  <p class="sz">Before him pour out <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>heart.</p>
  <p class="sz">God is a refuge for us. <i>Se′lah.</i></p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter62_verse9"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>9 </sup>
    </b>Indeed the sons of earthling man are an exhalation,</p>
  <p class="sz">The sons of mankind are a lie.</p>
  <p class="sz">When laid upon the scales they are all together lighter than an exhalation.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter62_verse10"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>10 </sup>
    </b>Do not put <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>trust in defrauding,</p>
  <p class="sz">Nor become vain in sheer robbery.</p>
  <p class="sz">In case the means of maintenance should thrive, do not set <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>heart on them.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter62_verse11"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>11 </sup>
    </b>Once God has spoken, twice I have heard even this,</p>
  <p class="sz">That strength belongs to God.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter62_verse12"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>12 </sup>
    </b>Also loving-kindness belongs to you, O Jehovah,</p>
  <p class="sz">For you yourself pay back to each one according to his work.</p>
</div>