<div>
  <p class="w_biblebookname">Proverbs</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter3"></a>
    <a id="chapter3_verse1"></a>
    <span class="w_ch">
      <b>3 </b>
    </span>My son, my law do not forget, and my commandments may your heart observe, <a id="chapter3_verse2"></a><b><sup>2 </sup></b>because length of days and years of life and peace will be added to you. <a id="chapter3_verse3"></a><b><sup>3 </sup></b>May loving-kindness <a id="page840"></a>and trueness themselves not leave you. Tie them about your throat. Write them upon the tablet of your heart, <a id="chapter3_verse4"></a><b><sup>4 </sup></b>and so find favor and good insight in the eyes of God and of earthling man. <a id="chapter3_verse5"></a><b><sup>5 </sup></b>Trust in Jehovah with all your heart and do not lean upon your own understanding. <a id="chapter3_verse6"></a><b><sup>6 </sup></b>In all your ways take notice of him, and he himself will make your paths straight.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter3_verse7"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>7 </sup>
    </b>Do not become wise in your own eyes. Fear Jehovah and turn away from bad. <a id="chapter3_verse8"></a><b><sup>8 </sup></b>May it become a healing to your navel and a refreshment to your bones.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter3_verse9"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>9 </sup>
    </b>Honor Jehovah with your valuable things and with the firstfruits of all your produce. <a id="chapter3_verse10"></a><b><sup>10 </sup></b>Then your stores of supply will be filled with plenty; and with new wine your own press vats will overflow.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter3_verse11"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>11 </sup>
    </b>The discipline of Jehovah, O my son, do not reject; and do not abhor his reproof, <a id="chapter3_verse12"></a><b><sup>12 </sup></b>because the one whom Jehovah loves he reproves, even as a father does a son in whom he finds pleasure.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter3_verse13"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>13 </sup>
    </b>Happy is the man that has found wisdom, and the man that gets discernment, <a id="chapter3_verse14"></a><b><sup>14 </sup></b>for having it as gain is better than having silver as gain and having it as produce than gold itself. <a id="chapter3_verse15"></a><b><sup>15 </sup></b>It is more precious than corals, and all other delights of yours cannot be made equal to it. <a id="chapter3_verse16"></a><b><sup>16 </sup></b>Length of days is in its right hand; in its left hand there are riches and glory. <a id="chapter3_verse17"></a><b><sup>17 </sup></b>Its ways are ways of pleasantness, and all its roadways are peace. <a id="chapter3_verse18"></a><b><sup>18 </sup></b>It is a tree of life to those taking hold of it, and those keeping fast hold of it are to be called happy.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter3_verse19"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>19 </sup>
    </b>Jehovah himself in wisdom founded the earth. He solidly fixed the heavens in discernment. <a id="chapter3_verse20"></a><b><sup>20 </sup></b>By his knowledge the watery deeps themselves were split apart, and the cloudy skies keep dripping down light rain. <a id="chapter3_verse21"></a><b><sup>21 </sup></b>My son, may they not get away from your eyes. Safeguard practical wisdom and thinking ability, <a id="chapter3_verse22"></a><b><sup>22 </sup></b>and they will prove to be life to your soul and charm to your throat. <a id="chapter3_verse23"></a><b><sup>23 </sup></b>In that case you will walk in security on your way, and even your foot will not strike against anything. <a id="chapter3_verse24"></a><b><sup>24 </sup></b>Whenever you lie down you will feel no dread; and you will certainly lie down, and your sleep must be pleasurable. <a id="chapter3_verse25"></a><b><sup>25 </sup></b>You will not need to be afraid of any sudden dreadful thing, nor of the storm upon the wicked ones, because it is coming. <a id="chapter3_verse26"></a><b><sup>26 </sup></b>For Jehovah himself will prove to be, in effect, your confidence, and he will certainly keep your foot against capture.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter3_verse27"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>27 </sup>
    </b>Do not hold back good from those to whom it is owing, when it happens to be in the power of your hand to do it. <a id="chapter3_verse28"></a><b><sup>28 </sup></b>Do not say to your fellowman: “Go, and come back and tomorrow I shall give,” when there is something with you. <a id="chapter3_verse29"></a><b><sup>29 </sup></b>Do not fabricate against your fellowman anything bad, when he is dwelling in a sense of security with you. <a id="chapter3_verse30"></a><b><sup>30 </sup></b>Do not quarrel with a man without cause, if he has rendered no bad to you.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter3_verse31"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>31 </sup>
    </b>Do not become envious of the man of violence, nor choose any of his ways. <a id="chapter3_verse32"></a><b><sup>32 </sup></b>For the devious person is a detestable thing to Jehovah, but His intimacy is with the upright ones. <a id="chapter3_verse33"></a><b><sup>33 </sup></b>The curse of Jehovah is on the house of the wicked one, but the abiding place of the righteous ones he blesses. <a id="chapter3_verse34"></a><b><sup>34 </sup></b>If it <a id="page841"></a>has to do with ridiculers, he himself will deride; but to the meek ones he will show favor. <a id="chapter3_verse35"></a><b><sup>35 </sup></b>Honor is what the wise ones will come to possess, but the stupid ones are exalting dishonor.</p>
</div>