<div>
  <p class="w_biblebookname">Proverbs</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter13"></a>
    <a id="chapter13_verse1"></a>
    <span class="w_ch">
      <b>13 </b>
    </span>A son is wise where there is a father’s discipline, but the ridiculer is one that has not heard rebuke.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter13_verse2"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>2 </sup>
    </b>From the fruitage of his mouth a man will eat good, but the very soul of those dealing treacherously is violence.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter13_verse3"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>3 </sup>
    </b>The one guarding his mouth is keeping his soul. The one opening wide his lips—he will have ruin.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter13_verse4"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>4 </sup>
    </b>The lazy one is showing himself desirous, but his soul has nothing. However, the very soul of the diligent ones will be made fat.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter13_verse5"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>5 </sup>
    </b>A false word is what the righteous hates, but the wicked ones act shamefully and cause disgrace for themselves.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter13_verse6"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>6 </sup>
    </b>Righteousness itself safeguards the one who is harmless in his way, but wickedness is what subverts the sinner.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter13_verse7"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>7 </sup>
    </b>There exists the one that is pretending to be rich and yet he has nothing at all; there is the one that is pretending to be of little means and yet he has many valuable things.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter13_verse8"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>8 </sup>
    </b>The ransom for a man’s soul is his riches, but the one of little means has not heard rebuke.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter13_verse9"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>9 </sup>
    </b>The very light of the righteous ones will rejoice; but the lamp of the wicked ones—it will be extinguished.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter13_verse10"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>10 </sup>
    </b>By presumptuousness one only causes a struggle, but with those consulting together there is wisdom.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter13_verse11"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>11 </sup>
    </b>Valuable things resulting from vanity become fewer, but the one collecting by the hand is the one that makes increase.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter13_verse12"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>12 </sup>
    </b>Expectation postponed is making the heart sick, but the thing desired is a tree of life when it does come.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter13_verse13"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>13 </sup>
    </b>He that has despised the word, from him a debtor’s pledge will be seized; but the one fearing the commandment is the one that will be rewarded.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter13_verse14"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>14 </sup>
    </b>The law of the wise one is a source of life, to turn one away from the snares of death.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter13_verse15"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>15 </sup>
    </b>Good insight itself gives favor, but the way of those dealing treacherously is rugged.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter13_verse16"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>16 </sup>
    </b>Everyone shrewd will act with knowledge, but the one that is stupid will spread abroad foolishness.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter13_verse17"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>17 </sup>
    </b>A messenger that is wicked will fall into bad, but a faithful envoy is a healing.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter13_verse18"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>18 </sup>
    </b>The one neglecting discipline comes to poverty and dishonor, but the one keeping a reproof is the one that is glorified.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter13_verse19"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>19 </sup>
    </b>Desire when realized is pleasurable to the soul; but it is something detestable to the stupid ones to turn away from bad.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter13_verse20"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>20 </sup>
    </b>He that is walking with wise persons will become wise, but he that is having dealings with the stupid ones will fare badly.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter13_verse21"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>21 </sup>
    </b>Sinners are the ones whom calamity pursues, but the righteous are the ones whom good rewards.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter13_verse22"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>22 </sup>
    </b>One who is good will leave an inheritance to sons of sons, <a id="page851"></a>and the wealth of the sinner is something treasured up for the righteous one.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter13_verse23"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>23 </sup>
    </b>Plowed ground of persons of little means yields a great deal of food, but there exists the one that is swept away for lack of judgment.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter13_verse24"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>24 </sup>
    </b>The one holding back his rod is hating his son, but the one loving him is he that does look for him with discipline.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter13_verse25"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>25 </sup>
    </b>The righteous is eating to the satisfaction of his soul, but the belly of the wicked ones will be empty.</p>
</div>