<div>
  <p class="w_biblebookname">Proverbs</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter2"></a>
    <a id="chapter2_verse1"></a>
    <span class="w_ch">
      <b>2 </b>
    </span>My son, if you will receive my sayings and treasure up my own commandments with yourself, <a id="chapter2_verse2"></a><b><sup>2 </sup></b>so as to pay attention to wisdom with your ear, that you may incline your heart to discernment; <a id="chapter2_verse3"></a><b><sup>3 </sup></b>if, moreover, you call out for understanding itself and you give forth your voice for discernment itself, <a id="chapter2_verse4"></a><b><sup>4 </sup></b>if you keep seeking for it as for silver, and as for hid treasures you keep searching for it, <a id="chapter2_verse5"></a><b><sup>5 </sup></b>in that case you will understand the fear of Jehovah, and you will find the very knowledge of God. <a id="chapter2_verse6"></a><b><sup>6 </sup></b>For Jehovah himself gives wisdom; out of his mouth there are knowledge and discernment. <a id="chapter2_verse7"></a><b><sup>7 </sup></b>And for the upright ones he will treasure up practical wisdom; for those walking in integrity he is a shield, <a id="chapter2_verse8"></a><b><sup>8 </sup></b>by observing the paths of judgment, and he will guard the very way of his loyal ones. <a id="chapter2_verse9"></a><b><sup>9 </sup></b>In that case you will understand righteousness and judgment and uprightness, the entire course of what is good.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter2_verse10"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>10 </sup>
    </b>When wisdom enters into your heart and knowledge itself becomes pleasant to your very soul, <a id="chapter2_verse11"></a><b><sup>11 </sup></b>thinking ability itself will keep guard over you, discernment itself will safeguard you, <a id="chapter2_verse12"></a><b><sup>12 </sup></b>to deliver you from the bad way, from the man speaking perverse things, <a id="chapter2_verse13"></a><b><sup>13 </sup></b>from those leaving the paths of uprightness to walk in the ways of darkness, <a id="chapter2_verse14"></a><b><sup>14 </sup></b>from those who are rejoicing in doing bad, who are joyful in the perverse things of badness; <a id="chapter2_verse15"></a><b><sup>15 </sup></b>those whose paths are crooked and who are devious in their general course; <a id="chapter2_verse16"></a><b><sup>16 </sup></b>to deliver you from the strange woman, from the foreign woman who has made her own sayings smooth, <a id="chapter2_verse17"></a><b><sup>17 </sup></b>who is leaving the confidential friend of her youth and who has forgotten the very covenant of her God. <a id="chapter2_verse18"></a><b><sup>18 </sup></b>For down to death her house does sink and down to those impotent in death her tracks. <a id="chapter2_verse19"></a><b><sup>19 </sup></b>None of those having relations with her will come back, nor will they regain the paths of those living.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter2_verse20"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>20 </sup>
    </b>The purpose is that you may walk in the way of good people and that the paths of the righteous ones you may keep. <a id="chapter2_verse21"></a><b><sup>21 </sup></b>For the upright are the ones that will reside in the earth, and the blameless are the ones that will be left over in it. <a id="chapter2_verse22"></a><b><sup>22 </sup></b>As regards the wicked, they will be cut off from the very earth; and as for the treacherous, they will be torn away from it.</p>
</div>