<div>
  <p class="w_biblebookname">Ecclesiastes</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter10"></a>
    <a id="chapter10_verse1"></a>
    <span class="w_ch">
      <b>10 </b>
    </span>Dead flies are what cause the oil of the ointment maker to stink, to bubble forth. So a little foolishness does to one who is precious for wisdom and glory.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter10_verse2"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>2 </sup>
    </b>The heart of the wise is at his right hand, but the heart of the stupid at his left hand. <a id="chapter10_verse3"></a><b><sup>3 </sup></b>And also in whatever way the foolish one is walking, his own heart is lacking, and he certainly says to everybody that he is foolish.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter10_verse4"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>4 </sup>
    </b>If the spirit of a ruler should mount up against you, do not leave your own place, for calmness itself allays great sins.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter10_verse5"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>5 </sup>
    </b>There exists something calamitous that I have seen under the sun, as when there is a mistake going forth on account of the one in power: <a id="chapter10_verse6"></a><b><sup>6 </sup></b>Foolishness has been put in many high positions, but the rich ones themselves keep dwelling merely in a low condition.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter10_verse7"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>7 </sup>
    </b>I have seen servants on horses but princes walking on the earth just like servants.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter10_verse8"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>8 </sup>
    </b>He that is digging a pit will himself fall right into it; and he that is breaking through a stone wall, a serpent will bite him.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter10_verse9"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>9 </sup>
    </b>He that is quarrying out stones will hurt himself with them. He that is splitting logs will have to be careful with them.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter10_verse10"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>10 </sup>
    </b>If an iron tool has become blunt and someone has not whetted its edge, then he will exert his own vital energies. So the using of wisdom to success means advantage.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter10_verse11"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>11 </sup>
    </b>If the serpent bites when no charming results, then there is no advantage to the one indulging in the tongue.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter10_verse12"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>12 </sup>
    </b>The words of the mouth of the wise one mean favor, but the lips of the stupid one swallow him up. <a id="chapter10_verse13"></a><b><sup>13 </sup></b>The start of the words of his mouth is foolishness, and the end afterward of his mouth is calamitous madness. <a id="chapter10_verse14"></a><b><sup>14 </sup></b>And the foolish one speaks many words.</p>
  <p class="sb">Man does not know what will come to be; and that which will come to be after him, who can tell him?</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter10_verse15"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>15 </sup>
    </b>The hard work of the stupid ones makes them weary, because not one has come to know how to go to the city.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter10_verse16"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>16 </sup>
    </b>How will it be with you, O land, when your king is a boy and your own princes keep eating even in the morning? <a id="chapter10_verse17"></a><b><sup>17 </sup></b>Happy are you, O land, when your king is the son of noble ones and your own princes eat at the proper time for mightiness, not for mere drinking.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter10_verse18"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>18 </sup>
    </b>Through great laziness the beamwork sinks in, and through the letting down of the hands the house leaks.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter10_verse19"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>19 </sup>
    </b>Bread is for the laughter of the workers, and wine itself makes life rejoice; but money is what meets a response in all things.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter10_verse20"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>20 </sup>
    </b>Even in your bedroom do not call down evil upon the king himself, and in the interior rooms where you lie down do not call down evil upon anyone rich; for a flying creature of the heavens will convey the sound and something owning wings will tell the matter.</p>
</div>