<div>
  <p class="w_biblebookname">Song of Solomon</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter4"></a>
    <a id="chapter4_verse1"></a>
    <span class="w_ch">
      <b>4 </b>
    </span>“Look! You are beautiful, O girl companion of mine. Look! You are beautiful. Your eyes are those of doves, behind your veil. Your hair is like a drove of goats that have hopped down from the mountainous region of Gil′e·ad. <a id="chapter4_verse2"></a><b><sup>2 </sup></b>Your teeth are like a drove of freshly shorn ewes that have gone up from the washing, all of which are bearing twins, with none among them having lost its young ones. <a id="chapter4_verse3"></a><b><sup>3 </sup></b>Your lips are just like a scarlet thread, and your speaking is agreeable. Like a segment of pomegranate are your temples behind your veil. <a id="chapter4_verse4"></a><b><sup>4 </sup></b>Your neck is like the tower of David, built in courses of stone, upon which are hung a thousand shields, all the circular shields of the mighty men. <a id="chapter4_verse5"></a><b><sup>5 </sup></b>Your two breasts are like two young ones, the twins of a female gazelle, that are feeding among the lilies.”</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter4_verse6"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>6 </sup>
    </b>“Until the day breathes and the shadows have fled, I shall go my way to the mountain of myrrh and to the hill of frankincense.”</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter4_verse7"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>7 </sup>
    </b>“You are altogether beautiful, O girl companion of mine, and there is no defect in you. <a id="chapter4_verse8"></a><b><sup>8 </sup></b>With me from Leb′a·non, O bride, with me from Leb′a·non may you come. May you descend from the top of Anti-Leb′a·non, from the top of Se′nir, even Her′mon, from the lairs of lions, from the mountains of leopards. <a id="chapter4_verse9"></a><b><sup>9 </sup></b>You have made my heart beat, O my sister, my bride, you have made my heart beat by one of your eyes, by one pendant of your necklace. <a id="chapter4_verse10"></a><b><sup>10 </sup></b>How beautiful your expressions of endearment are, O my sister, my bride! How much better your expressions of endearment are than wine and the fragrance of your oils than all sorts of perfume! <a id="chapter4_verse11"></a><b><sup>11 </sup></b>With comb honey your lips keep dripping, O my bride. Honey and milk are under your tongue, and the fragrance of your garments is like the fragrance of Leb′a·non. <a id="chapter4_verse12"></a><b><sup>12 </sup></b>A garden barred in is my sister, my bride, a garden barred in, a spring sealed up. <a id="chapter4_verse13"></a><b><sup>13 </sup></b>Your skin is a paradise of pomegranates, with the choicest fruits, henna plants along with spikenard plants; <a id="chapter4_verse14"></a><b><sup>14 </sup></b>spikenard and saffron, cane and cinnamon, along with all sorts of trees of frankincense, myrrh and aloes, along with all the finest perfumes; <a id="chapter4_verse15"></a><b><sup>15 </sup></b>and a spring of gardens, a well of fresh water, and trickling streams from Leb′a·non. <a id="chapter4_verse16"></a><b><sup>16 </sup></b>Awake, O north wind, and come in, O south wind. Breathe upon my garden. Let its perfumes trickle.”</p>
  <p class="sb">“Let my dear one come into his garden and eat its choicest fruits.”</p>
</div>