<div>
  <p class="w_biblebookname">Isaiah</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter64"></a>
    <a id="chapter64_verse1"></a>
    <span class="w_ch">
      <b>64 </b>
    </span>O if only you had ripped the heavens apart, that you had come down, that on account of you the very mountains had quaked, <a id="chapter64_verse2"></a><b><sup>2 </sup></b>as when a fire ignites the brushwood, and the fire makes the very water boil up, in order to make your name known to your adversaries, that on account of you the nations might be agitated! <a id="chapter64_verse3"></a><b><sup>3 </sup></b>When you did fear-inspiring things for which we could not hope, you came down. On account of you the mountains themselves quaked. <a id="chapter64_verse4"></a><b><sup>4 </sup></b>And from time long ago none have heard, nor have any given ear, nor has an eye itself seen a God, except you, that acts for the one that keeps in expectation of him. <a id="chapter64_verse5"></a><b><sup>5 </sup></b>You have met up with the one exulting and doing righteousness, those who keep remembering you in your own ways.</p>
  <p class="sb">Look! You yourself became indignant, while we kept sinning—in them a long time, and should we be saved? <a id="chapter64_verse6"></a><b><sup>6 </sup></b>And we become like someone unclean, all of us, and all our acts of righteousness are like a garment for periods of menstruation; and we shall fade away like leafage, all of us, and our errors themselves will carry us away just like a wind. <a id="chapter64_verse7"></a><b><sup>7 </sup></b>And there is no one calling upon your name, no one rousing himself to lay hold on you; for you have concealed your face from us, and you cause us to melt by the power of our error.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter64_verse8"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>8 </sup>
    </b>And now, O Jehovah, you are our Father. We are the clay, and you are our Potter; and all of us are the work of your hand. <a id="chapter64_verse9"></a><b><sup>9 </sup></b>Do not be indignant, O Jehovah, to the extreme, and do not forever remember our error. Look, now, please: we are all your people. <a id="chapter64_verse10"></a><b><sup>10 </sup></b>Your own holy cities have become a wilderness. Zion itself has become a sheer wilderness, Jerusalem a desolate waste. <a id="chapter64_verse11"></a><b><sup>11 </sup></b>Our house of holiness and beauty, in which our forefathers praised you, has itself become something for burning <a id="page960"></a>in the fire; and every one of our desirable things has become a devastation. <a id="chapter64_verse12"></a><b><sup>12 </sup></b>In the face of these things will you continue keeping yourself in check, O Jehovah? Will you stay still and let us be afflicted to the extreme?</p>
</div>