<div>
  <p class="w_biblebookname">Isaiah</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter30"></a>
    <a id="chapter30_verse1"></a>
    <span class="w_ch">
      <b>30 </b>
    </span>“Woe to the stubborn sons,” is the utterance of Jehovah, “those disposed to carry out counsel, but not that from me; and to pour out a libation, but not with my spirit, in order to add sin to sin; <a id="chapter30_verse2"></a><b><sup>2 </sup></b>those who are setting out to go down to Egypt and who have not inquired of my own mouth, to take shelter in the stronghold of Phar′aoh and to take refuge in the shadow of Egypt! <a id="chapter30_verse3"></a><b><sup>3 </sup></b>And the stronghold of Phar′aoh must become even for <span class="smcap">YOU </span>men a reason for shame, and the refuge in the shadow of Egypt a cause for humiliation. <a id="chapter30_verse4"></a><b><sup>4 </sup></b>For his princes have come to be in Zo′an itself, and his own envoys reach even Ha′nes. <a id="chapter30_verse5"></a><b><sup>5 </sup></b>Every one will certainly become ashamed of a people that bring no benefit to one, that are of no help and bring no benefit, but are a reason for shame and also a cause for reproach.”</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter30_verse6"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>6 </sup>
    </b>The pronouncement against the beasts of the south: Through the land of distress and hard conditions, of the lion and the leopard growling, of the viper and the flying fiery snake, on the shoulders of full-grown asses they carry their resources, and on the humps of camels their supplies. In behalf of the people they will prove of no benefit. <a id="chapter30_verse7"></a><b><sup>7 </sup></b>And the Egyptians are mere vanity, and they will help simply for nothing. Therefore I have called this one: “Ra′hab—they are for sitting still.”</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter30_verse8"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>8 </sup>
    </b>“Now come, write it upon a tablet with them, and inscribe it even in a book, that it may serve for a future day, for a witness to time indefinite. <a id="chapter30_verse9"></a><b><sup>9 </sup></b>For it is a rebellious people, untruthful sons, sons who have been unwilling to hear the law of Jehovah; <a id="chapter30_verse10"></a><b><sup>10 </sup></b>who have said to the ones seeing, ‘Y<span class="smcap">OU </span>must not see,’ and to the ones having visions, ‘Y<span class="smcap">OU </span>must not envision for us any straightforward things. Speak to us smooth things; envision deceptive things. <a id="chapter30_verse11"></a><b><sup>11 </sup></b>Turn aside from the way; deviate from the path. Cause the Holy One of Israel to cease just on account of us.’”</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter30_verse12"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>12 </sup>
    </b>Therefore this is what the Holy One of Israel has said: “In view of <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>rejecting of this word, and since <span class="smcap">YOU </span>men trust in defrauding and in what is devious and <span class="smcap">YOU </span>support yourselves on it, <a id="chapter30_verse13"></a><b><sup>13 </sup></b>therefore for <span class="smcap">YOU </span>this error will become like a broken section about to fall down, a swelling out in a highly raised wall, the breakdown of which may come suddenly, in an instant. <a id="chapter30_verse14"></a><b><sup>14 </sup></b>And one will certainly break it as in the breaking of a large jar of the potters, crushed to pieces without one’s sparing it, so that there cannot be found among its crushed pieces a fragment of earthenware <a id="page920"></a>with which to rake the fire from the fireplace or to skim water from a marshy place.”</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter30_verse15"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>15 </sup>
    </b>For this is what the Sovereign Lord Jehovah, the Holy One of Israel, has said: “By coming back and resting <span class="smcap">YOU </span>people will be saved. Y<span class="smcap">OUR </span>mightiness will prove to be simply in keeping undisturbed and in trustfulness.” But <span class="smcap">YOU </span>were not willing. <a id="chapter30_verse16"></a><b><sup>16 </sup></b>And <span class="smcap">YOU </span>proceeded to say: “No, but on horses we shall flee!” That is why <span class="smcap">YOU </span>will flee. “And on swift horses we shall ride!” That is why those pursuing <span class="smcap">YOU </span>will show themselves swift. <a id="chapter30_verse17"></a><b><sup>17 </sup></b>A thousand will tremble on account of the rebuke of one; on account of the rebuke of five <span class="smcap">YOU </span>will flee until <span class="smcap">YOU </span>will have remained over like a mast on the top of a mountain and like a signal on a hill.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter30_verse18"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>18 </sup>
    </b>And therefore Jehovah will keep in expectation of showing <span class="smcap">YOU </span>favor, and therefore he will rise up to show <span class="smcap">YOU </span>mercy. For Jehovah is a God of judgment. Happy are all those keeping in expectation of him. <a id="chapter30_verse19"></a><b><sup>19 </sup></b>When the very people in Zion will dwell in Jerusalem, you will by no means weep. He will without fail show you favor at the sound of your outcry; as soon as he hears it he will actually answer you. <a id="chapter30_verse20"></a><b><sup>20 </sup></b>And Jehovah will certainly give <span class="smcap">YOU </span>people bread in the form of distress and water in the form of oppression; yet your Grand Instructor will no longer hide himself, and your eyes must become eyes seeing your Grand Instructor. <a id="chapter30_verse21"></a><b><sup>21 </sup></b>And your own ears will hear a word behind you saying: “This is the way. Walk in it, <span class="smcap">YOU </span>people,” in case <span class="smcap">YOU </span>people should go to the right or in case <span class="smcap">YOU </span>should go to the left.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter30_verse22"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>22 </sup>
    </b>And <span class="smcap">YOU </span>people must defile the overlaying of your graven images of silver and the close-fitting covering of your molten statue of gold. You will scatter them. Like a menstruating woman, you will say to it: “Mere dirt!” <a id="chapter30_verse23"></a><b><sup>23 </sup></b>And he will certainly give the rain for your seed with which you sow the ground, and as the produce of the ground bread, which must become fat and oily. Your livestock will graze in that day in a spacious pasture. <a id="chapter30_verse24"></a><b><sup>24 </sup></b>And the cattle and the full-grown asses cultivating the ground will eat fodder seasoned with sorrel, which was winnowed with the shovel and with the fork. <a id="chapter30_verse25"></a><b><sup>25 </sup></b>And upon every high mountain and upon every elevated hill there must come to be streams, water ditches, in the day of the big slaughter when the towers fall. <a id="chapter30_verse26"></a><b><sup>26 </sup></b>And the light of the full moon must become as the light of the glowing sun; and the very light of the glowing sun will become seven times as much, like the light of seven days, in the day that Jehovah binds up the breakdown of his people and heals even the severe wound resulting from the stroke by him.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter30_verse27"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>27 </sup>
    </b>Look! The name of Jehovah is coming from far away, burning with his anger and with heavy clouds. As for his lips, they have become full of denunciation, and his tongue is like a devouring fire. <a id="chapter30_verse28"></a><b><sup>28 </sup></b>And his spirit is like a flooding torrent that reaches clear to the neck, to swing the nations to and fro with a sieve of worthlessness; and a bridle that causes one to wander about will be in the jaws of the peoples. <a id="chapter30_verse29"></a><b><sup>29 </sup></b>Y<span class="smcap">OU </span>people will come to have a song like that in the night that one sanctifies oneself for a festival, and rejoicing of heart like that of one walking with a flute to enter into <a id="page921"></a>the mountain of Jehovah, to the Rock of Israel.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter30_verse30"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>30 </sup>
    </b>And Jehovah will certainly make the dignity of his voice to be heard and will make the descending of his arm to be seen, in the raging of anger and the flame of a devouring fire and cloudburst and rainstorm and hailstones. <a id="chapter30_verse31"></a><b><sup>31 </sup></b>For because of the voice of Jehovah As·syr′i·a will be struck with terror; he will strike it even with a staff. <a id="chapter30_verse32"></a><b><sup>32 </sup></b>And every swing of his rod of chastisement that Jehovah will cause to settle down upon As·syr′i·a will certainly prove to be with tambourines and with harps; and with battles of brandishing he will actually fight against them. <a id="chapter30_verse33"></a><b><sup>33 </sup></b>For his To′pheth is set in order from recent times; it is also prepared for the king himself. He has made its pile deep. Fire and wood are in abundance. The breath of Jehovah, like a torrent of sulphur, is burning against it.</p>
</div>