<div>
  <p class="w_biblebookname">Lamentations</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter5"></a>
    <a id="chapter5_verse1"></a>
    <span class="w_ch">
      <b>5 </b>
    </span>Remember, O Jehovah, what has happened to us. Do look and see our reproach.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter5_verse2"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>2 </sup>
    </b>Our own hereditary possession has been turned over to strangers, our houses to foreigners.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter5_verse3"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>3 </sup>
    </b>We have become mere orphans without a father. Our mothers are like widows.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter5_verse4"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>4 </sup>
    </b>For money we have had to drink our own water. For a price our own wood comes in.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter5_verse5"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>5 </sup>
    </b>Close onto our neck we have been pursued. We have grown weary. No rest has been left for us.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter5_verse6"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>6 </sup>
    </b>To Egypt we have given the hand; to As·syr′i·a, in order to get satisfaction with bread.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter5_verse7"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>7 </sup>
    </b>Our forefathers are the ones <a id="page1056"></a>that have sinned. They are no more. As for us, it is their errors that we have had to bear.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter5_verse8"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>8 </sup>
    </b>Mere servants have ruled over us. There is no one tearing us away from their hand.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter5_verse9"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>9 </sup>
    </b>At the risk of our soul we bring in our bread, because of the sword of the wilderness.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter5_verse10"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>10 </sup>
    </b>Our very skin has grown hot just like a furnace, because of the pangs of hunger.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter5_verse11"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>11 </sup>
    </b>The wives in Zion they have humbled, the virgins in the cities of Judah.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter5_verse12"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>12 </sup>
    </b>Princes themselves have been hanged by just their hand. The faces of even old men have not been honored.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter5_verse13"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>13 </sup>
    </b>Even young men have lifted up a hand mill itself, and under the wood mere boys have stumbled.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter5_verse14"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>14 </sup>
    </b>Old men themselves have ceased even out of the gate, young men from their instrumental music.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter5_verse15"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>15 </sup>
    </b>The exultation of our heart has ceased. Our dancing has been changed into mere mourning.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter5_verse16"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>16 </sup>
    </b>The crown of our head has fallen. Woe, now, to us, because we have sinned!</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter5_verse17"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>17 </sup>
    </b>On this account our heart has become ill. On account of these things our eyes have grown dim,</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter5_verse18"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>18 </sup>
    </b>On account of Zion’s mountain that is desolated; foxes themselves have walked on it.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter5_verse19"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>19 </sup>
    </b>As for you, O Jehovah, to time indefinite you will sit. Your throne is for generation after generation.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter5_verse20"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>20 </sup>
    </b>Why is it that forever you forget us, that you leave us for the length of days?</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter5_verse21"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>21 </sup>
    </b>Bring us back, O Jehovah, to yourself, and we shall readily come back. Bring new days for us as in the long ago.</p>
  <p class="sl">
    <a id="chapter5_verse22"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>22 </sup>
    </b>However, you have positively rejected us. You have been indignant toward us very much.</p>
</div>