<div>
  <p class="w_biblebookname">Ezekiel</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter6"></a>
    <a id="chapter6_verse1"></a>
    <span class="w_ch">
      <b>6 </b>
    </span>And the word of Jehovah continued to occur to me, saying: <a id="chapter6_verse2"></a><b><sup>2 </sup></b>“Son of man, set your face toward the mountains of Israel and prophesy to them. <a id="chapter6_verse3"></a><b><sup>3 </sup></b>And you must say, ‘O mountains of Israel, hear the word of the Sovereign Lord Jehovah: This is what the Sovereign Lord Jehovah has said to the mountains and to the hills, to the streambeds and to the valleys: “Here I am! I am bringing upon <span class="smcap">YOU </span>a sword, and I shall certainly destroy <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>high places. <a id="chapter6_verse4"></a><b><sup>4 </sup></b>And <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>altars must be made desolate and <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>incense stands must be broken, and I will cause <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>slain ones to fall before <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>dungy idols. <a id="chapter6_verse5"></a><b><sup>5 </sup></b>And I will put the carcasses of the sons of Israel before their dungy idols, and I will scatter <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>bones all around <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>altars. <a id="chapter6_verse6"></a><b><sup>6 </sup></b>In all <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>dwelling places the very cities will become devastated and the high places themselves will become desolated, in order that they may lie devastated and <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>altars may lie desolated and be actually broken and <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>dungy idols may be actually made to cease and <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>incense stands cut down and <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>works wiped out. <a id="chapter6_verse7"></a><b><sup>7 </sup></b>And the slain one will certainly fall in the midst of <span class="smcap">YOU</span>, and <span class="smcap">YOU </span>will have to know that I am Jehovah.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter6_verse8"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>8 </sup>
    </b>“‘“And when it occurs I will let <span class="smcap">YOU </span>have as a remnant the ones escaping from the sword among the nations, when <span class="smcap">YOU </span>get scattered among the lands. <a id="chapter6_verse9"></a><b><sup>9 </sup></b>And <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>escaped ones will certainly remember me among the nations to which they will have been taken captive, because I have been broken up at their fornicating heart that has turned aside from me and at their eyes that are going in fornication after their dungy idols; and they will certainly feel a loathing in their faces at the bad things that they have done in all their detestable things. <a id="chapter6_verse10"></a><b><sup>10 </sup></b>And they will have <a id="page1063"></a>to know that I am Jehovah; not in vain did I speak about doing to them this calamitous thing.”’</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter6_verse11"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>11 </sup>
    </b>“This is what the Sovereign Lord Jehovah has said, ‘Clap your hands and stamp with your foot, and say: “Alas!” on account of all the bad detestable things of the house of Israel, because by the sword, by the famine and by the pestilence they will fall. <a id="chapter6_verse12"></a><b><sup>12 </sup></b>As for the one far away, by the pestilence he will die; and as for the one that is nearby, by the sword he will fall; and as for the one that has been left remaining and that has been safeguarded, by the famine he will die, and I will bring to its finish my rage against them. <a id="chapter6_verse13"></a><b><sup>13 </sup></b>And <span class="smcap">YOU </span>people will have to know that I am Jehovah, when their slain ones come to be in the midst of their dungy idols, all around their altars, upon every high hill, on all the tops of the mountains and under every luxuriant tree and under every branchy big tree, the place where they have offered a restful odor to all their dungy idols. <a id="chapter6_verse14"></a><b><sup>14 </sup></b>And I will stretch out my hand against them and make the land a desolate waste, even a desolation worse than the wilderness toward Dib′lah, in all their dwelling places. And they will have to know that I am Jehovah.’”</p>
</div>