<div>
  <p class="w_biblebookname">Micah</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter1"></a>
    <a id="chapter1_verse1"></a>
    <span class="w_ch">
      <b>1 </b>
    </span>The word of Jehovah that occurred to Mi′cah of Mo′resh·eth, in the days of Jo′tham, A′haz, Hez·e·ki′ah, kings of Judah, that he visioned concerning Sa·mar′i·a and Jerusalem:</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter1_verse2"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>2 </sup>
    </b>“Hear, O <span class="smcap">YOU </span>peoples, all of <span class="smcap">YOU</span>; pay attention, O earth and what fills you, and let the Sovereign Lord Jehovah serve against <span class="smcap">YOU </span>as a witness, Jehovah from his holy temple. <a id="chapter1_verse3"></a><b><sup>3 </sup></b>For, look! Jehovah is going forth from his place, and he will certainly come down and tread upon earth’s high places. <a id="chapter1_verse4"></a><b><sup>4 </sup></b>And the mountains must melt under him, and the low plains themselves will split apart, like wax because of the fire, like waters being poured down a steep place.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter1_verse5"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>5 </sup>
    </b>“It is because of the revolt of Jacob that there is all this, even because of the sins of the house of Israel. What is the revolt of Jacob? Is it not Sa·mar′i·a? And what are the high places of Judah? Are they not Jerusalem? <a id="chapter1_verse6"></a><b><sup>6 </sup></b>And I shall certainly make Sa·mar′i·a a heap of ruins of the field, the planting places of a vineyard; and I will pour down into the valley her stones, and her foundations I shall lay bare. <a id="chapter1_verse7"></a><b><sup>7 </sup></b>And her graven images will all be crushed to pieces, and all the gifts made to her as her hire will be burned in the fire; and all her idols I shall make a desolate waste. For from the things given as the hire of a prostitute she collected them, and to the thing given as the hire of a prostitute they will return.”</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter1_verse8"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>8 </sup>
    </b>On this account I will wail and howl; I will walk barefoot and naked. I shall make a wailing like the jackals, and a mourning like female ostriches. <a id="chapter1_verse9"></a><b><sup>9 </sup></b>For the stroke upon her is unhealable; for it has come as far as Judah, the plague as far as the gate of my people, as far as Jerusalem.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter1_verse10"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>10 </sup>
    </b>“In Gath do not <span class="smcap">YOU </span>men tell it out; positively do not weep.</p>
  <p class="sb">“In the house of Aph′rah wallow in the very dust. <a id="chapter1_verse11"></a><b><sup>11 </sup></b>Make your way across, O inhabitress of Sha′phir, in shameful nudity. The inhabitress of Za′a·nan has not gone forth. The wailing of Beth-e′zel will take from <span class="smcap">YOU </span>people its standing place. <a id="chapter1_verse12"></a><b><sup>12 </sup></b>For the inhabitress of Ma′roth has waited for good, but what is bad has come down from Jehovah to the gate of Jerusalem. <a id="chapter1_verse13"></a><b><sup>13 </sup></b>Attach the chariot to the team of horses, O inhabitress of La′chish. The beginning of sin was what she was <a id="page1182"></a>to the daughter of Zion, for in you the revolts of Israel have been found. <a id="chapter1_verse14"></a><b><sup>14 </sup></b>Therefore you will give parting gifts to Mo′resh·eth-gath. The houses of Ach′zib were as something deceitful to the kings of Israel. <a id="chapter1_verse15"></a><b><sup>15 </sup></b>The dispossessor I shall yet bring to you, O inhabitress of Ma·re′shah. As far as A·dul′lam the glory of Israel will come. <a id="chapter1_verse16"></a><b><sup>16 </sup></b>Cause baldness, and shear your hair off on account of your sons of exquisite delight. Broaden out your baldness like that of the eagle, because they have gone away from you into exile.”</p>
</div>