<div>
  <p class="w_biblebookname">Nahum</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter3"></a>
    <a id="chapter3_verse1"></a>
    <span class="w_ch">
      <b>3 </b>
    </span>Woe to the city of bloodshed. She is all full of deception and of robbery. Prey does not depart! <a id="chapter3_verse2"></a><b><sup>2 </sup></b>There is the sound of the whip and the sound of the rattling of the wheel, and the dashing horse and the leaping chariot. <a id="chapter3_verse3"></a><b><sup>3 </sup></b>The mounted horseman, and the flame of the sword, and the lightning of the spear, and the multitude of slain ones, and the heavy mass of carcasses; and there is no end to the dead bodies. They keep stumbling among their dead bodies; <a id="chapter3_verse4"></a><b><sup>4 </sup></b>owing to the abundance of the acts of prostitution of the prostitute, attractive with charm, a mistress of sorceries, she who is ensnaring nations by her acts of prostitution and families by her sorceries.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter3_verse5"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>5 </sup>
    </b>“Look! I am against you,” is the utterance of Jehovah of armies, “and I will put the covering of your skirts over your face, and I will cause nations to see your nakedness, and kingdoms your dishonor. <a id="chapter3_verse6"></a><b><sup>6 </sup></b>And I will throw disgusting things upon you, and I will make you despicable; and I will set you as a spectacle. <a id="chapter3_verse7"></a><b><sup>7 </sup></b>And it must occur that everyone seeing you will flee away from you and will certainly say, ‘Nin′e·veh has been despoiled! Who will sympathize with her?’ From where shall I seek comforters for you? <a id="chapter3_verse8"></a><b><sup>8 </sup></b>Are you better than No-a′mon, that was sitting by the Nile canals? Waters were all around her, whose wealth was the sea, whose wall was from the sea. <a id="chapter3_verse9"></a><b><sup>9 </sup></b>E·thi·o′pi·a was her full might, also Egypt; and that without limit. Put and the Lib′y·ans themselves proved to be of assistance to you. <a id="chapter3_verse10"></a><b><sup>10 </sup></b>She, too, was meant for exile; she went into captivity. Her own children also came to be dashed to pieces at the head of all the streets; and over her glorified men they cast lots, and her great ones have all been bound with fetters.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter3_verse11"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>11 </sup>
    </b>“You yourself will also become drunk; you will become something hidden. You yourself also will seek a stronghold from the enemy. <a id="chapter3_verse12"></a><b><sup>12 </sup></b>All your fortified places are as fig trees with the first ripe fruits, which, if they get wiggled, will certainly fall into the mouth of an eater.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter3_verse13"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>13 </sup>
    </b>“Look! Your people are women in the midst of you. To your enemies the gates of your land must without fail be opened. Fire will certainly devour your bars. <a id="chapter3_verse14"></a><b><sup>14 </sup></b>Water for a siege draw out for yourself. Strengthen your fortified <a id="page1190"></a>places. Get into the mire, and trample down in the clay; grab hold of the brick mold. <a id="chapter3_verse15"></a><b><sup>15 </sup></b>Even there fire will devour you. A sword will cut you off. It will devour you like the locust species. Make yourself heavy in numbers like the locust species; make yourself heavy in numbers like the locust. <a id="chapter3_verse16"></a><b><sup>16 </sup></b>You have multiplied your tradesmen more than the stars of the heavens.</p>
  <p class="sb">“As for the locust species, it actually strips off its skin; then it flies away. <a id="chapter3_verse17"></a><b><sup>17 </sup></b>Your guardsmen are like the locust, and your recruiting officers like the locust swarm. They are camping in the stone pens in a cold day. The sun itself has but to shine forth, and away they certainly flee; and their place is really unknown where they are.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter3_verse18"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>18 </sup>
    </b>“Your shepherds have become drowsy, O king of As·syr′i·a; your majestic ones stay in their residences. Your people have been scattered upon the mountains, and there is no one collecting them together. <a id="chapter3_verse19"></a><b><sup>19 </sup></b>There is no relief for your catastrophe. Your stroke has become unhealable. All those hearing the report about you will certainly clap their hands at you; because upon whom was it that your badness did not pass over constantly?”</p>
</div>