<div>
  <p class="w_biblebookname">Matthew</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter10"></a>
    <a id="chapter10_verse1"></a>
    <span class="w_ch">
      <b>10 </b>
    </span>So he summoned his twelve disciples and gave them authority over unclean spirits, in order to expel these and to cure every sort of disease and every sort of infirmity.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter10_verse2"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>2 </sup>
    </b>The names of the twelve apostles are these: First, Simon, the one called Peter, and Andrew his brother; and James the son of Zeb′e·dee and John his brother; <a id="chapter10_verse3"></a><b><sup>3 </sup></b>Philip and Bar·thol′o·mew; Thomas and Matthew the tax collector; James the son of Al·phae′us, and Thad·dae′us; <a id="chapter10_verse4"></a><b><sup>4 </sup></b>Simon the Ca·na·nae′an, and Judas Is·car′i·ot, who later betrayed him.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter10_verse5"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>5 </sup>
    </b>These twelve Jesus sent forth, giving them these orders: “Do not go off into the road of the nations, and do not enter into a Sa·mar′i·tan city; <a id="chapter10_verse6"></a><b><sup>6 </sup></b>but, instead, go continually to the lost sheep of the house of Israel. <a id="chapter10_verse7"></a><b><sup>7 </sup></b>As <span class="smcap">YOU </span>go, preach, saying, ‘The kingdom of the heavens has drawn near.’ <a id="chapter10_verse8"></a><b><sup>8 </sup></b>Cure sick people, raise up dead persons, make lepers clean, expel demons. Y<span class="smcap">OU </span>received free, give free. <a id="chapter10_verse9"></a><b><sup>9 </sup></b>Do not procure gold or silver or copper for <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>girdle purses, <a id="chapter10_verse10"></a><b><sup>10 </sup></b>or a food pouch for the trip, or two undergarments, or sandals or a staff; for the worker deserves his food.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter10_verse11"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>11 </sup>
    </b>“Into whatever city or village <span class="smcap">YOU </span>enter, search out who in it is deserving, and stay there until <span class="smcap">YOU </span>leave. <a id="chapter10_verse12"></a><b><sup>12 </sup></b>When <span class="smcap">YOU </span>are entering into the house, greet the household; <a id="chapter10_verse13"></a><b><sup>13 </sup></b>and if the house is deserving, let the peace <span class="smcap">YOU </span>wish it come upon it; but if it is not deserving, let the peace from <span class="smcap">YOU </span>return upon <span class="smcap">YOU</span>. <a id="chapter10_verse14"></a><b><sup>14 </sup></b>Wherever anyone does not take <span class="smcap">YOU </span>in or listen to <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>words, on going out of that house or that city shake the dust off <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>feet. <a id="chapter10_verse15"></a><b><sup>15 </sup></b>Truly I say to <span class="smcap">YOU</span>, It will be more endurable for the land of Sod′om and Go·mor′rah on Judgment Day than for that city.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter10_verse16"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>16 </sup>
    </b>“Look! I am sending <span class="smcap">YOU </span>forth as sheep amidst wolves; therefore prove yourselves cautious as serpents and yet innocent as doves. <a id="chapter10_verse17"></a><b><sup>17 </sup></b>Be on <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>guard against men; for they will deliver <span class="smcap">YOU </span>up to local courts, and they will scourge <span class="smcap">YOU </span>in their synagogues. <a id="chapter10_verse18"></a><b><sup>18 </sup></b>Why, <span class="smcap">YOU </span>will be haled before governors and kings for my sake, for a witness to them and the nations. <a id="chapter10_verse19"></a><b><sup>19 </sup></b>However, when they deliver <span class="smcap">YOU </span>up, do not become anxious about how or what <span class="smcap">YOU </span>are to speak; for what <span class="smcap">YOU </span>are to speak will be given <span class="smcap">YOU </span>in that hour; <a id="chapter10_verse20"></a><b><sup>20 </sup></b>for the ones speaking are not just <span class="smcap">YOU</span>, but it is the spirit of <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>Father that speaks by <span class="smcap">YOU</span>. <a id="chapter10_verse21"></a><b><sup>21 </sup></b>Further, brother will deliver up brother to death, and a father his child, and children will rise up against parents and will have <a id="page1228"></a>them put to death. <a id="chapter10_verse22"></a><b><sup>22 </sup></b>And <span class="smcap">YOU </span>will be objects of hatred by all people on account of my name; but he that has endured to the end is the one that will be saved. <a id="chapter10_verse23"></a><b><sup>23 </sup></b>When they persecute <span class="smcap">YOU </span>in one city, flee to another; for truly I say to <span class="smcap">YOU</span>, Y<span class="smcap">OU </span>will by no means complete the circuit of the cities of Israel until the Son of man arrives.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter10_verse24"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>24 </sup>
    </b>“A disciple is not above his teacher, nor a slave above his lord. <a id="chapter10_verse25"></a><b><sup>25 </sup></b>It is enough for the disciple to become as his teacher, and the slave as his lord. If people have called the householder Be·el′ze·bub, how much more will they call those of his household so? <a id="chapter10_verse26"></a><b><sup>26 </sup></b>Therefore do not fear them; for there is nothing covered over that will not become uncovered, and secret that will not become known. <a id="chapter10_verse27"></a><b><sup>27 </sup></b>What I tell <span class="smcap">YOU </span>in the darkness, say in the light; and what <span class="smcap">YOU </span>hear whispered, preach from the housetops. <a id="chapter10_verse28"></a><b><sup>28 </sup></b>And do not become fearful of those who kill the body but cannot kill the soul; but rather be in fear of him that can destroy both soul and body in Ge·hen′na. <a id="chapter10_verse29"></a><b><sup>29 </sup></b>Do not two sparrows sell for a coin of small value? Yet not one of them will fall to the ground without <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>Father’s knowledge. <a id="chapter10_verse30"></a><b><sup>30 </sup></b>But the very hairs of <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>head are all numbered. <a id="chapter10_verse31"></a><b><sup>31 </sup></b>Therefore have no fear: <span class="smcap">YOU </span>are worth more than many sparrows.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter10_verse32"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>32 </sup>
    </b>“Everyone, then, that confesses union with me before men, I will also confess union with him before my Father who is in the heavens; <a id="chapter10_verse33"></a><b><sup>33 </sup></b>but whoever disowns me before men, I will also disown him before my Father who is in the heavens. <a id="chapter10_verse34"></a><b><sup>34 </sup></b>Do not think I came to put peace upon the earth; I came to put, not peace, but a sword. <a id="chapter10_verse35"></a><b><sup>35 </sup></b>For I came to cause division, with a man against his father, and a daughter against her mother, and a young wife against her mother-in-law. <a id="chapter10_verse36"></a><b><sup>36 </sup></b>Indeed, a man’s enemies will be persons of his own household. <a id="chapter10_verse37"></a><b><sup>37 </sup></b>He that has greater affection for father or mother than for me is not worthy of me; and he that has greater affection for son or daughter than for me is not worthy of me. <a id="chapter10_verse38"></a><b><sup>38 </sup></b>And whoever does not accept his torture stake and follow after me is not worthy of me. <a id="chapter10_verse39"></a><b><sup>39 </sup></b>He that finds his soul will lose it, and he that loses his soul for my sake will find it.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter10_verse40"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>40 </sup>
    </b>“He that receives <span class="smcap">YOU </span>receives me also, and he that receives me receives him also that sent me forth. <a id="chapter10_verse41"></a><b><sup>41 </sup></b>He that receives a prophet because he is a prophet will get a prophet’s reward, and he that receives a righteous man because he is a righteous man will get a righteous man’s reward. <a id="chapter10_verse42"></a><b><sup>42 </sup></b>And whoever gives one of these little ones only a cup of cold water to drink because he is a disciple, I tell <span class="smcap">YOU </span>truly, he will by no means lose his reward.”</p>
</div>