<div>
  <p class="w_biblebookname">Matthew</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter23"></a>
    <a id="chapter23_verse1"></a>
    <span class="w_ch">
      <b>23 </b>
    </span>Then Jesus spoke to the crowds and to his disciples, saying: <a id="chapter23_verse2"></a><b><sup>2 </sup></b>“The scribes and the Pharisees have seated themselves in the seat of Moses. <a id="chapter23_verse3"></a><b><sup>3 </sup></b>Therefore all the things they tell <span class="smcap">YOU</span>, do and observe, but do not do according to their deeds, for they say but do not perform. <a id="chapter23_verse4"></a><b><sup>4 </sup></b>They bind up heavy loads and put them upon the shoulders of men, but they themselves are not willing to budge them with their finger. <a id="chapter23_verse5"></a><b><sup>5 </sup></b>All the works they do they do to be viewed by men; for they broaden the scripture-containing cases that they wear as safeguards, and enlarge the fringes of their garments. <a id="chapter23_verse6"></a><b><sup>6 </sup></b>They like the most prominent place at evening meals and the front seats in the synagogues, <a id="chapter23_verse7"></a><b><sup>7 </sup></b>and the greetings in the marketplaces and to be called Rabbi by men. <a id="chapter23_verse8"></a><b><sup>8 </sup></b>But <span class="smcap">YOU</span>, do not <span class="smcap">YOU </span>be called Rabbi, for one is <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>teacher, whereas all <span class="smcap">YOU </span>are brothers. <a id="chapter23_verse9"></a><b><sup>9 </sup></b>Moreover, do not call anyone <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>father on earth, for one is <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>Father, the heavenly One. <a id="chapter23_verse10"></a><b><sup>10 </sup></b>Neither be called ‘leaders,’ for <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>Leader is one, the Christ. <a id="chapter23_verse11"></a><b><sup>11 </sup></b>But the greatest one among <span class="smcap">YOU </span>must be <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>minister. <a id="chapter23_verse12"></a><b><sup>12 </sup></b>Whoever exalts himself will be humbled, and whoever humbles himself will be exalted.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter23_verse13"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>13 </sup>
    </b>“Woe to <span class="smcap">YOU</span>, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites! because <span class="smcap">YOU </span>shut up the kingdom of the heavens before men; for <span class="smcap">YOU </span>yourselves do not go in, neither do <span class="smcap">YOU </span>permit those on their way in to go in. <a id="chapter23_verse14"></a><b><sup>14 </sup></b>——</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter23_verse15"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>15 </sup>
    </b>“Woe to <span class="smcap">YOU</span>, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites! because <span class="smcap">YOU </span>traverse sea and dry land to make one proselyte, and when he becomes one <span class="smcap">YOU </span>make him a subject for Ge·hen′na twice as much so as yourselves.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter23_verse16"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>16 </sup>
    </b>“Woe to <span class="smcap">YOU</span>, blind guides, who say, ‘If anyone swears by the temple, it is nothing; but if anyone swears by the gold of the temple, he is under obligation.’ <a id="chapter23_verse17"></a><b><sup>17 </sup></b>Fools and blind ones! Which, in fact, is greater, the gold or the temple that has sanctified the gold? <a id="chapter23_verse18"></a><b><sup>18 </sup></b>Also, ‘If anyone swears by the altar, it is nothing; but if anyone swears by the gift on it, he is under obligation.’ <a id="chapter23_verse19"></a><b><sup>19 </sup></b>Blind ones! Which, in fact, is greater, the gift or the altar that sanctifies the gift? <a id="chapter23_verse20"></a><b><sup>20 </sup></b>Therefore he that swears by the altar is swearing by it and by all the things on it; <a id="chapter23_verse21"></a><b><sup>21 </sup></b>and he that swears by the temple is swearing by it and by him that is inhabiting it; <a id="chapter23_verse22"></a><b><sup>22 </sup></b>and he that swears by heaven is swearing by the throne of God and by him that is sitting on it.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter23_verse23"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>23 </sup>
    </b>“Woe to <span class="smcap">YOU</span>, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites! because <span class="smcap">YOU </span>give the tenth of the mint and the dill and the cumin, but <span class="smcap">YOU </span>have disregarded the weightier matters of the Law, namely, justice and mercy and faithfulness. These things it was binding to do, yet not to disregard the other things. <a id="chapter23_verse24"></a><b><sup>24 </sup></b>Blind guides, who strain out the gnat but gulp down the camel!</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter23_verse25"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>25 </sup>
    </b>“Woe to <span class="smcap">YOU</span>, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites! because <span class="smcap">YOU </span>cleanse the outside of the cup and of the dish, but inside they are full of plunder and immoderateness. <a id="chapter23_verse26"></a><b><sup>26 </sup></b>Blind Pharisee, cleanse first the inside of the cup and of the dish, that the outside of it also may become clean.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter23_verse27"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>27 </sup>
    </b>“Woe to <span class="smcap">YOU</span>, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites! because <span class="smcap">YOU </span>resemble whitewashed graves, which outwardly indeed appear beautiful but inside are full of dead men’s bones and of every sort of uncleanness. <a id="chapter23_verse28"></a><b><sup>28 </sup></b>In that way <span class="smcap">YOU </span>also, outwardly indeed, appear righteous <a id="page1247"></a>to men, but inside <span class="smcap">YOU </span>are full of hypocrisy and lawlessness.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter23_verse29"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>29 </sup>
    </b>“Woe to <span class="smcap">YOU</span>, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites! because <span class="smcap">YOU </span>build the graves of the prophets and decorate the memorial tombs of the righteous ones, <a id="chapter23_verse30"></a><b><sup>30 </sup></b>and <span class="smcap">YOU </span>say, ‘If we were in the days of our forefathers, we would not be sharers with them in the blood of the prophets.’ <a id="chapter23_verse31"></a><b><sup>31 </sup></b>Therefore <span class="smcap">YOU </span>are bearing witness against yourselves that <span class="smcap">YOU </span>are sons of those who murdered the prophets. <a id="chapter23_verse32"></a><b><sup>32 </sup></b>Well, then, fill up the measure of <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>forefathers.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter23_verse33"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>33 </sup>
    </b>“Serpents, offspring of vipers, how are <span class="smcap">YOU </span>to flee from the judgment of Ge·hen′na? <a id="chapter23_verse34"></a><b><sup>34 </sup></b>For this reason, here I am sending forth to <span class="smcap">YOU </span>prophets and wise men and public instructors. Some of them <span class="smcap">YOU </span>will kill and impale, and some of them <span class="smcap">YOU </span>will scourge in <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>synagogues and persecute from city to city; <a id="chapter23_verse35"></a><b><sup>35 </sup></b>that there may come upon <span class="smcap">YOU </span>all the righteous blood spilled on earth, from the blood of righteous Abel to the blood of Zech·a·ri′ah son of Bar·a·chi′ah, whom <span class="smcap">YOU </span>murdered between the sanctuary and the altar. <a id="chapter23_verse36"></a><b><sup>36 </sup></b>Truly I say to <span class="smcap">YOU</span>, All these things will come upon this generation.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter23_verse37"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>37 </sup>
    </b>“Jerusalem, Jerusalem, the killer of the prophets and stoner of those sent forth to her,—how often I wanted to gather your children together, the way a hen gathers her chicks together under her wings! But <span class="smcap">YOU </span>people did not want it. <a id="chapter23_verse38"></a><b><sup>38 </sup></b>Look! Y<span class="smcap">OUR </span>house is abandoned to <span class="smcap">YOU</span>. <a id="chapter23_verse39"></a><b><sup>39 </sup></b>For I say to <span class="smcap">YOU</span>, Y<span class="smcap">OU </span>will by no means see me from henceforth until <span class="smcap">YOU </span>say, ‘Blessed is he that comes in Jehovah’s name!’”</p>
</div>