<div>
  <p class="w_biblebookname">Luke</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter2"></a>
    <a id="chapter2_verse1"></a>
    <span class="w_ch">
      <b>2 </b>
    </span>Now in those days a decree went forth from Caesar Au·gus′tus for all the inhabited earth to be registered; <a id="chapter2_verse2"></a><b><sup>2 </sup></b>(this first registration took place when Qui·rin′i·us was governor of Syria;) <a id="chapter2_verse3"></a><b><sup>3 </sup></b>and all people went traveling to be registered, each one to his own city. <a id="chapter2_verse4"></a><b><sup>4 </sup></b>Of course, Joseph also went up from Gal′i·lee, out of the city of Naz′a·reth, into Ju·de′a, to David’s city, which is called Beth′le·hem, because of his being a member of the house and family of David, <a id="chapter2_verse5"></a><b><sup>5 </sup></b>to get registered with Mary, who had been given him in marriage as promised, at present heavy with child. <a id="chapter2_verse6"></a><b><sup>6 </sup></b>While they were there, the days came to the full for her to give birth. <a id="chapter2_verse7"></a><b><sup>7 </sup></b>And she gave birth to her son, the firstborn, and she bound him with cloth bands and laid him in a manger, <a id="page1286"></a>because there was no place for them in the lodging room.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter2_verse8"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>8 </sup>
    </b>There were also in that same country shepherds living out of doors and keeping watches in the night over their flocks. <a id="chapter2_verse9"></a><b><sup>9 </sup></b>And suddenly Jehovah’s angel stood by them, and Jehovah’s glory gleamed around them, and they became very fearful. <a id="chapter2_verse10"></a><b><sup>10 </sup></b>But the angel said to them: “Have no fear, for, look! I am declaring to <span class="smcap">YOU </span>good news of a great joy that all the people will have, <a id="chapter2_verse11"></a><b><sup>11 </sup></b>because there was born to <span class="smcap">YOU </span>today a Savior, who is Christ the Lord, in David’s city. <a id="chapter2_verse12"></a><b><sup>12 </sup></b>And this is a sign for <span class="smcap">YOU</span>: <span class="smcap">YOU </span>will find an infant bound in cloth bands and lying in a manger.” <a id="chapter2_verse13"></a><b><sup>13 </sup></b>And suddenly there came to be with the angel a multitude of the heavenly army, praising God and saying: <a id="chapter2_verse14"></a><b><sup>14 </sup></b>“Glory in the heights above to God, and upon earth peace among men of goodwill.”</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter2_verse15"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>15 </sup>
    </b>So when the angels had departed from them into heaven, the shepherds began saying to one another: “Let us by all means go clear to Beth′le·hem and see this thing that has taken place, which Jehovah has made known to us.” <a id="chapter2_verse16"></a><b><sup>16 </sup></b>And they went with haste and found Mary as well as Joseph, and the infant lying in the manger. <a id="chapter2_verse17"></a><b><sup>17 </sup></b>When they saw it, they made known the saying that had been spoken to them concerning this young child. <a id="chapter2_verse18"></a><b><sup>18 </sup></b>And all that heard marveled over the things told them by the shepherds, <a id="chapter2_verse19"></a><b><sup>19 </sup></b>but Mary began to preserve all these sayings, drawing conclusions in her heart. <a id="chapter2_verse20"></a><b><sup>20 </sup></b>Then the shepherds went back, glorifying and praising God for all the things they heard and saw, just as these had been told them.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter2_verse21"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>21 </sup>
    </b>Now when eight days came to the full for circumcising him, his name was also called Jesus, the name called by the angel before he was conceived in the womb.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter2_verse22"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>22 </sup>
    </b>Also, when the days for purifying them according to the law of Moses came to the full, they brought him up to Jerusalem to present him to Jehovah, <a id="chapter2_verse23"></a><b><sup>23 </sup></b>just as it is written in Jehovah’s law: “Every male opening a womb must be called holy to Jehovah,” <a id="chapter2_verse24"></a><b><sup>24 </sup></b>and to offer sacrifice according to what is said in the law of Jehovah: “A pair of turtledoves or two young pigeons.”</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter2_verse25"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>25 </sup>
    </b>And, look! there was a man in Jerusalem named Sim′e·on, and this man was righteous and reverent, waiting for Israel’s consolation, and holy spirit was upon him. <a id="chapter2_verse26"></a><b><sup>26 </sup></b>Furthermore, it had been divinely revealed to him by the holy spirit that he would not see death before he had seen the Christ of Jehovah. <a id="chapter2_verse27"></a><b><sup>27 </sup></b>Under the power of the spirit he now came into the temple; and as the parents brought the young child Jesus in to do for it according to the customary practice of the law, <a id="chapter2_verse28"></a><b><sup>28 </sup></b>he himself received it into his arms and blessed God and said: <a id="chapter2_verse29"></a><b><sup>29 </sup></b>“Now, Sovereign Lord, you are letting your slave go free in peace according to your declaration; <a id="chapter2_verse30"></a><b><sup>30 </sup></b>because my eyes have seen your means of saving <a id="chapter2_verse31"></a><b><sup>31 </sup></b>that you have made ready in the sight of all the peoples, <a id="chapter2_verse32"></a><b><sup>32 </sup></b>a light for removing the veil from the nations and a glory of your people Israel.” <a id="chapter2_verse33"></a><b><sup>33 </sup></b>And its father and mother continued wondering at the things being spoken about it. <a id="chapter2_verse34"></a><b><sup>34 </sup></b>Also, Sim′e·on blessed them, but said to Mary its mother: “Look! This one is laid for the fall and the rising again of many in Israel and for a sign to be talked against <a id="chapter2_verse35"></a><b><sup>35 </sup></b>(yes, a long sword will be run through the soul of you yourself), in order that the reasonings of many hearts may be uncovered.”</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="page1287"></a>
    <a id="chapter2_verse36"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>36 </sup>
    </b>Now there was Anna a prophetess, Phan′u·el’s daughter, of Ash′er’s tribe (this woman was well along in years, and had lived with a husband for seven years from her virginity, <a id="chapter2_verse37"></a><b><sup>37 </sup></b>and she was a widow now eighty-four years old), who was never missing from the temple, rendering sacred service night and day with fastings and supplications. <a id="chapter2_verse38"></a><b><sup>38 </sup></b>And in that very hour she came near and began returning thanks to God and speaking about the child to all those waiting for Jerusalem’s deliverance.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter2_verse39"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>39 </sup>
    </b>So when they had carried out all the things according to the law of Jehovah, they went back into Gal′i·lee to their own city Naz′a·reth. <a id="chapter2_verse40"></a><b><sup>40 </sup></b>And the young child continued growing and getting strong, being filled with wisdom, and God’s favor continued upon him.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter2_verse41"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>41 </sup>
    </b>Now his parents were accustomed to go from year to year to Jerusalem for the festival of the passover. <a id="chapter2_verse42"></a><b><sup>42 </sup></b>And when he became twelve years old, they went up according to the custom of the festival <a id="chapter2_verse43"></a><b><sup>43 </sup></b>and completed the days. But when they were returning, the boy Jesus remained behind in Jerusalem, and his parents did not notice it. <a id="chapter2_verse44"></a><b><sup>44 </sup></b>Assuming that he was in the company traveling together, they covered a day’s distance and then began to hunt him up among the relatives and acquaintances. <a id="chapter2_verse45"></a><b><sup>45 </sup></b>But, not finding him, they returned to Jerusalem, making a diligent search for him. <a id="chapter2_verse46"></a><b><sup>46 </sup></b>Well, after three days they found him in the temple, sitting in the midst of the teachers and listening to them and questioning them. <a id="chapter2_verse47"></a><b><sup>47 </sup></b>But all those listening to him were in constant amazement at his understanding and his answers. <a id="chapter2_verse48"></a><b><sup>48 </sup></b>Now when they saw him they were astounded, and his mother said to him: “Child, why did you treat us this way? Here your father and I in mental distress have been looking for you.” <a id="chapter2_verse49"></a><b><sup>49 </sup></b>But he said to them: “Why did <span class="smcap">YOU </span>have to go looking for me? Did <span class="smcap">YOU </span>not know that I must be in the house of my Father?” <a id="chapter2_verse50"></a><b><sup>50 </sup></b>However, they did not grasp the saying that he spoke to them.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter2_verse51"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>51 </sup>
    </b>And he went down with them and came to Naz′a·reth, and he continued subject to them. Also, his mother carefully kept all these sayings in her heart. <a id="chapter2_verse52"></a><b><sup>52 </sup></b>And Jesus went on progressing in wisdom and in physical growth and in favor with God and men.</p>
</div>