<div>
  <p class="w_biblebookname">John</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter14"></a>
    <a id="chapter14_verse1"></a>
    <span class="w_ch">
      <b>14 </b>
    </span>“Do not let <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>hearts be troubled. Exercise faith in God, exercise faith also in me. <a id="chapter14_verse2"></a><b><sup>2 </sup></b>In the house of my Father there are many abodes. Otherwise, <a id="page1350"></a>I would have told <span class="smcap">YOU</span>, because I am going my way to prepare a place for <span class="smcap">YOU</span>. <a id="chapter14_verse3"></a><b><sup>3 </sup></b>Also, if I go my way and prepare a place for <span class="smcap">YOU</span>, I am coming again and will receive <span class="smcap">YOU </span>home to myself, that where I am <span class="smcap">YOU </span>also may be. <a id="chapter14_verse4"></a><b><sup>4 </sup></b>And where I am going <span class="smcap">YOU </span>know the way.”</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter14_verse5"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>5 </sup>
    </b>Thomas said to him: “Lord, we do not know where you are going. How do we know the way?”</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter14_verse6"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>6 </sup>
    </b>Jesus said to him: “I am the way and the truth and the life. No one comes to the Father except through me. <a id="chapter14_verse7"></a><b><sup>7 </sup></b>If <span class="smcap">YOU </span>men had known me, <span class="smcap">YOU </span>would have known my Father also; from this moment on <span class="smcap">YOU </span>know him and have seen him.”</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter14_verse8"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>8 </sup>
    </b>Philip said to him: “Lord, show us the Father, and it is enough for us.”</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter14_verse9"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>9 </sup>
    </b>Jesus said to him: “Have I been with <span class="smcap">YOU </span>men so long a time, and yet, Philip, you have not come to know me? He that has seen me has seen the Father also. How is it you say, ‘Show us the Father’? <a id="chapter14_verse10"></a><b><sup>10 </sup></b>Do you not believe that I am in union with the Father and the Father is in union with me? The things I say to <span class="smcap">YOU </span>men I do not speak of my own originality; but the Father who remains in union with me is doing his works. <a id="chapter14_verse11"></a><b><sup>11 </sup></b>Believe me that I am in union with the Father and the Father is in union with me; otherwise, believe on account of the works themselves. <a id="chapter14_verse12"></a><b><sup>12 </sup></b>Most truly I say to <span class="smcap">YOU</span>, He that exercises faith in me, that one also will do the works that I do; and he will do works greater than these, because I am going my way to the Father. <a id="chapter14_verse13"></a><b><sup>13 </sup></b>Also, whatever it is that <span class="smcap">YOU </span>ask in my name, I will do this, in order that the Father may be glorified in connection with the Son. <a id="chapter14_verse14"></a><b><sup>14 </sup></b>If <span class="smcap">YOU </span>ask anything in my name, I will do it.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter14_verse15"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>15 </sup>
    </b>“If <span class="smcap">YOU </span>love me, <span class="smcap">YOU </span>will observe my commandments; <a id="chapter14_verse16"></a><b><sup>16 </sup></b>and I will request the Father and he will give <span class="smcap">YOU </span>another helper to be with <span class="smcap">YOU </span>forever, <a id="chapter14_verse17"></a><b><sup>17 </sup></b>the spirit of the truth, which the world cannot receive, because it neither beholds it nor knows it. Y<span class="smcap">OU </span>know it, because it remains with <span class="smcap">YOU </span>and is in <span class="smcap">YOU</span>. <a id="chapter14_verse18"></a><b><sup>18 </sup></b>I shall not leave <span class="smcap">YOU </span>bereaved. I am coming to <span class="smcap">YOU</span>. <a id="chapter14_verse19"></a><b><sup>19 </sup></b>A little longer and the world will behold me no more, but <span class="smcap">YOU </span>will behold me, because I live and <span class="smcap">YOU </span>will live. <a id="chapter14_verse20"></a><b><sup>20 </sup></b>In that day <span class="smcap">YOU </span>will know that I am in union with my Father and <span class="smcap">YOU </span>are in union with me and I am in union with <span class="smcap">YOU</span>. <a id="chapter14_verse21"></a><b><sup>21 </sup></b>He that has my commandments and observes them, that one is he who loves me. In turn he that loves me will be loved by my Father, and I will love him and will plainly show myself to him.”</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter14_verse22"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>22 </sup>
    </b>Judas, not Is·car′i·ot, said to him: “Lord, what has happened that you intend to show yourself plainly to us and not to the world?”</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter14_verse23"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>23 </sup>
    </b>In answer Jesus said to him: “If anyone loves me, he will observe my word, and my Father will love him, and we shall come to him and make our abode with him. <a id="chapter14_verse24"></a><b><sup>24 </sup></b>He that does not love me does not observe my words; and the word that <span class="smcap">YOU </span>are hearing is not mine, but belongs to the Father who sent me.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter14_verse25"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>25 </sup>
    </b>“While remaining with <span class="smcap">YOU </span>I have spoken these things to <span class="smcap">YOU</span>. <a id="chapter14_verse26"></a><b><sup>26 </sup></b>But the helper, the holy spirit, which the Father will send in my name, that one will teach <span class="smcap">YOU </span>all things and bring back to <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>minds all the things I told <span class="smcap">YOU</span>. <a id="chapter14_verse27"></a><b><sup>27 </sup></b>I leave <span class="smcap">YOU </span>peace, I give <span class="smcap">YOU </span>my peace. I do not give it to <span class="smcap">YOU </span>the way that the world gives it. <a id="page1351"></a>Do not let <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>hearts be troubled nor let them shrink for fear. <a id="chapter14_verse28"></a><b><sup>28 </sup></b>Y<span class="smcap">OU </span>heard that I said to <span class="smcap">YOU</span>, I am going away and I am coming back to <span class="smcap">YOU</span>. If <span class="smcap">YOU </span>loved me, <span class="smcap">YOU </span>would rejoice that I am going my way to the Father, because the Father is greater than I am. <a id="chapter14_verse29"></a><b><sup>29 </sup></b>So now I have told <span class="smcap">YOU </span>before it occurs, in order that, when it does occur, <span class="smcap">YOU </span>may believe. <a id="chapter14_verse30"></a><b><sup>30 </sup></b>I shall not speak much with <span class="smcap">YOU </span>anymore, for the ruler of the world is coming. And he has no hold on me, <a id="chapter14_verse31"></a><b><sup>31 </sup></b>but, in order for the world to know that I love the Father, even as the Father has given me commandment to do, so I am doing. Get up, let us go from here.</p>
</div>