<div>
  <p class="w_biblebookname">Romans</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter8"></a>
    <a id="chapter8_verse1"></a>
    <span class="w_ch">
      <b>8 </b>
    </span>Therefore those in union with Christ Jesus have no condemnation. <a id="chapter8_verse2"></a><b><sup>2 </sup></b>For the law of that spirit which gives life in union with Christ Jesus has set you free from the law of sin and of death. <a id="chapter8_verse3"></a><b><sup>3 </sup></b>For, there being an incapability on the part of the Law, while it was weak through the flesh, God, by sending his own Son in the likeness of sinful flesh and concerning sin, condemned <a id="page1413"></a>sin in the flesh, <a id="chapter8_verse4"></a><b><sup>4 </sup></b>that the righteous requirement of the Law might be fulfilled in us who walk, not in accord with the flesh, but in accord with the spirit. <a id="chapter8_verse5"></a><b><sup>5 </sup></b>For those who are in accord with the flesh set their minds on the things of the flesh, but those in accord with the spirit on the things of the spirit. <a id="chapter8_verse6"></a><b><sup>6 </sup></b>For the minding of the flesh means death, but the minding of the spirit means life and peace; <a id="chapter8_verse7"></a><b><sup>7 </sup></b>because the minding of the flesh means enmity with God, for it is not under subjection to the law of God, nor, in fact, can it be. <a id="chapter8_verse8"></a><b><sup>8 </sup></b>So those who are in harmony with the flesh cannot please God.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter8_verse9"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>9 </sup>
    </b>However, <span class="smcap">YOU </span>are in harmony, not with the flesh, but with the spirit, if God’s spirit truly dwells in <span class="smcap">YOU</span>. But if anyone does not have Christ’s spirit, this one does not belong to him. <a id="chapter8_verse10"></a><b><sup>10 </sup></b>But if Christ is in union with <span class="smcap">YOU</span>, the body indeed is dead on account of sin, but the spirit is life on account of righteousness. <a id="chapter8_verse11"></a><b><sup>11 </sup></b>If, now, the spirit of him that raised up Jesus from the dead dwells in <span class="smcap">YOU</span>, he that raised up Christ Jesus from the dead will also make <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>mortal bodies alive through his spirit that resides in <span class="smcap">YOU</span>.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter8_verse12"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>12 </sup>
    </b>So, then, brothers, we are under obligation, not to the flesh to live in accord with the flesh; <a id="chapter8_verse13"></a><b><sup>13 </sup></b>for if <span class="smcap">YOU </span>live in accord with the flesh <span class="smcap">YOU </span>are sure to die; but if <span class="smcap">YOU </span>put the practices of the body to death by the spirit, <span class="smcap">YOU </span>will live. <a id="chapter8_verse14"></a><b><sup>14 </sup></b>For all who are led by God’s spirit, these are God’s sons. <a id="chapter8_verse15"></a><b><sup>15 </sup></b>For <span class="smcap">YOU </span>did not receive a spirit of slavery causing fear again, but <span class="smcap">YOU </span>received a spirit of adoption as sons, by which spirit we cry out: <i>“Abba, </i>Father!” <a id="chapter8_verse16"></a><b><sup>16 </sup></b>The spirit itself bears witness with our spirit that we are God’s children. <a id="chapter8_verse17"></a><b><sup>17 </sup></b>If, then, we are children, we are also heirs: heirs indeed of God, but joint heirs with Christ, provided we suffer together that we may also be glorified together.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter8_verse18"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>18 </sup>
    </b>Consequently I reckon that the sufferings of the present season do not amount to anything in comparison with the glory that is going to be revealed in us. <a id="chapter8_verse19"></a><b><sup>19 </sup></b>For the eager expectation of the creation is waiting for the revealing of the sons of God. <a id="chapter8_verse20"></a><b><sup>20 </sup></b>For the creation was subjected to futility, not by its own will but through him that subjected it, on the basis of hope <a id="chapter8_verse21"></a><b><sup>21 </sup></b>that the creation itself also will be set free from enslavement to corruption and have the glorious freedom of the children of God. <a id="chapter8_verse22"></a><b><sup>22 </sup></b>For we know that all creation keeps on groaning together and being in pain together until now. <a id="chapter8_verse23"></a><b><sup>23 </sup></b>Not only that, but we ourselves also who have the firstfruits, namely, the spirit, yes, we ourselves groan within ourselves, while we are earnestly waiting for adoption as sons, the release from our bodies by ransom. <a id="chapter8_verse24"></a><b><sup>24 </sup></b>For we were saved in this hope; but hope that is seen is not hope, for when a man sees a thing, does he hope for it? <a id="chapter8_verse25"></a><b><sup>25 </sup></b>But if we hope for what we do not see, we keep on waiting for it with endurance.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter8_verse26"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>26 </sup>
    </b>In like manner the spirit also joins in with help for our weakness; for the problem of what we should pray for as we need to we do not know, but the spirit itself pleads for us with groanings unuttered. <a id="chapter8_verse27"></a><b><sup>27 </sup></b>Yet he who searches the hearts knows what the meaning of the spirit is, because it is pleading in accord with God for holy ones.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter8_verse28"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>28 </sup>
    </b>Now we know that God <a id="page1414"></a>makes all his works cooperate together for the good of those who love God, those who are the ones called according to his purpose; <a id="chapter8_verse29"></a><b><sup>29 </sup></b>because those whom he gave his first recognition he also foreordained to be patterned after the image of his Son, that he might be the firstborn among many brothers. <a id="chapter8_verse30"></a><b><sup>30 </sup></b>Moreover, those whom he foreordained are the ones he also called; and those whom he called are the ones he also declared to be righteous. Finally those whom he declared righteous are the ones he also glorified.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter8_verse31"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>31 </sup>
    </b>What, then, shall we say to these things? If God is for us, who will be against us? <a id="chapter8_verse32"></a><b><sup>32 </sup></b>He who did not even spare his own Son but delivered him up for us all, why will he not also with him kindly give us all other things? <a id="chapter8_verse33"></a><b><sup>33 </sup></b>Who will file accusation against God’s chosen ones? God is the One who declares them righteous. <a id="chapter8_verse34"></a><b><sup>34 </sup></b>Who is he that will condemn? Christ Jesus is the one who died, yes, rather the one who was raised up from the dead, who is on the right hand of God, who also pleads for us.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter8_verse35"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>35 </sup>
    </b>Who will separate us from the love of the Christ? Will tribulation or distress or persecution or hunger or nakedness or danger or sword? <a id="chapter8_verse36"></a><b><sup>36 </sup></b>Just as it is written: “For your sake we are being put to death all day long, we have been accounted as sheep for slaughtering.” <a id="chapter8_verse37"></a><b><sup>37 </sup></b>To the contrary, in all these things we are coming off completely victorious through him that loved us. <a id="chapter8_verse38"></a><b><sup>38 </sup></b>For I am convinced that neither death nor life nor angels nor governments nor things now here nor things to come nor powers <a id="chapter8_verse39"></a><b><sup>39 </sup></b>nor height nor depth nor any other creation will be able to separate us from God’s love that is in Christ Jesus our Lord.</p>
</div>