<div>
  <p class="w_biblebookname">Romans</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter14"></a>
    <a id="chapter14_verse1"></a>
    <span class="w_ch">
      <b>14 </b>
    </span>Welcome the man having weaknesses in his faith, but not to make decisions on inward questionings. <a id="chapter14_verse2"></a><b><sup>2 </sup></b>One man has faith to eat everything, but the man who is weak eats vegetables. <a id="chapter14_verse3"></a><b><sup>3 </sup></b>Let the one eating not look down on the one not eating, and let the one not eating not judge the one eating, for God has welcomed that one. <a id="chapter14_verse4"></a><b><sup>4 </sup></b>Who are you to judge the house servant of another? To his own master he stands or falls. Indeed, he will be made to stand, for Jehovah can make him stand.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter14_verse5"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>5 </sup>
    </b>One man judges one day as above another; another man judges one day as all others; let each man be fully convinced in his own mind. <a id="chapter14_verse6"></a><b><sup>6 </sup></b>He who observes the day observes it to Jehovah. Also, he who eats, eats to Jehovah, for he gives thanks to God; and he who does not eat does not eat to Jehovah, and yet gives thanks to God. <a id="chapter14_verse7"></a><b><sup>7 </sup></b>None of us, in fact, lives with regard to himself only, and no one dies with regard to himself only; <a id="chapter14_verse8"></a><b><sup>8 </sup></b>for both if we live, we live to Jehovah, and if we die, we die to Jehovah. Therefore both if we live and if we die, we belong to Jehovah. <a id="chapter14_verse9"></a><b><sup>9 </sup></b>For to this <a id="page1420"></a>end Christ died and came to life again, that he might be Lord over both the dead and the living.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter14_verse10"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>10 </sup>
    </b>But why do you judge your brother? Or why do you also look down on your brother? For we shall all stand before the judgment seat of God; <a id="chapter14_verse11"></a><b><sup>11 </sup></b>for it is written: “‘As I live,’ says Jehovah, ‘to me every knee will bend down, and every tongue will make open acknowledgment to God.’” <a id="chapter14_verse12"></a><b><sup>12 </sup></b>So, then, each of us will render an account for himself to God.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter14_verse13"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>13 </sup>
    </b>Therefore let us not be judging one another any longer, but rather make this <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>decision, not to put before a brother a stumbling block or a cause for tripping. <a id="chapter14_verse14"></a><b><sup>14 </sup></b>I know and am persuaded in the Lord Jesus that nothing is defiled in itself; only where a man considers something to be defiled, to him it is defiled. <a id="chapter14_verse15"></a><b><sup>15 </sup></b>For if because of food your brother is being grieved, you are no longer walking in accord with love. Do not by your food ruin that one for whom Christ died. <a id="chapter14_verse16"></a><b><sup>16 </sup></b>Do not, therefore, let the good <span class="smcap">YOU </span>people do be spoken of with injury to <span class="smcap">YOU</span>. <a id="chapter14_verse17"></a><b><sup>17 </sup></b>For the kingdom of God does not mean eating and drinking, but means righteousness and peace and joy with holy spirit. <a id="chapter14_verse18"></a><b><sup>18 </sup></b>For he who in this regard slaves for Christ is acceptable to God and has approval with men.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter14_verse19"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>19 </sup>
    </b>So, then, let us pursue the things making for peace and the things that are upbuilding to one another. <a id="chapter14_verse20"></a><b><sup>20 </sup></b>Stop tearing down the work of God just for the sake of food. True, all things are clean, but it is injurious to the man who with an occasion for stumbling eats. <a id="chapter14_verse21"></a><b><sup>21 </sup></b>It is well not to eat flesh or to drink wine or do anything over which your brother stumbles. <a id="chapter14_verse22"></a><b><sup>22 </sup></b>The faith that you have, have it in accord with yourself in the sight of God. Happy is the man that does not put himself on judgment by what he approves. <a id="chapter14_verse23"></a><b><sup>23 </sup></b>But if he has doubts, he is already condemned if he eats, because he does not eat out of faith. Indeed, everything that is not out of faith is sin.</p>
</div>