<div>
  <p class="w_biblebookname">1 Corinthians</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter10"></a>
    <a id="chapter10_verse1"></a>
    <span class="w_ch">
      <b>10 </b>
    </span>Now I do not want <span class="smcap">YOU </span>to be ignorant, brothers, that our forefathers were all under the cloud and all passed through the sea <a id="chapter10_verse2"></a><b><sup>2 </sup></b>and all got baptized into Moses by means of the cloud and of the sea; <a id="chapter10_verse3"></a><b><sup>3 </sup></b>and all ate the same spiritual food <a id="chapter10_verse4"></a><b><sup>4 </sup></b>and all drank the same spiritual drink. For they used to drink from the spiritual rock-mass that followed them, and that rock-mass meant the Christ. <a id="chapter10_verse5"></a><b><sup>5 </sup></b>Nevertheless, on most of them God did not express his approval, for they were laid low in the wilderness.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter10_verse6"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>6 </sup>
    </b>Now these things became our examples, for us not to be persons desiring injurious things, even as they desired them. <a id="chapter10_verse7"></a><b><sup>7 </sup></b>Neither become idolaters, as some of them did; just as it is written: “The people sat down to eat and drink, and they got up to have a good time.” <a id="chapter10_verse8"></a><b><sup>8 </sup></b>Neither let us practice fornication, as some of them committed fornication, only to fall, twenty-three thousand of them in one day. <a id="chapter10_verse9"></a><b><sup>9 </sup></b>Neither let us put Jehovah to the test, as some of them put him to the test, <a id="page1432"></a>only to perish by the serpents. <a id="chapter10_verse10"></a><b><sup>10 </sup></b>Neither be murmurers, just as some of them murmured, only to perish by the destroyer. <a id="chapter10_verse11"></a><b><sup>11 </sup></b>Now these things went on befalling them as examples, and they were written for a warning to us upon whom the ends of the systems of things have arrived.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter10_verse12"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>12 </sup>
    </b>Consequently let him that thinks he is standing beware that he does not fall. <a id="chapter10_verse13"></a><b><sup>13 </sup></b>No temptation has taken <span class="smcap">YOU </span>except what is common to men. But God is faithful, and he will not let <span class="smcap">YOU </span>be tempted beyond what <span class="smcap">YOU </span>can bear, but along with the temptation he will also make the way out in order for <span class="smcap">YOU </span>to be able to endure it.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter10_verse14"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>14 </sup>
    </b>Therefore, my beloved ones, flee from idolatry. <a id="chapter10_verse15"></a><b><sup>15 </sup></b>I speak as to men with discernment; judge for yourselves what I say. <a id="chapter10_verse16"></a><b><sup>16 </sup></b>The cup of blessing which we bless, is it not a sharing in the blood of the Christ? The loaf which we break, is it not a sharing in the body of the Christ? <a id="chapter10_verse17"></a><b><sup>17 </sup></b>Because there is one loaf, we, although many, are one body, for we are all partaking of that one loaf.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter10_verse18"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>18 </sup>
    </b>L<span class="smcap">OOK </span>at that which is Israel in a fleshly way: Are not those who eat the sacrifices sharers with the altar? <a id="chapter10_verse19"></a><b><sup>19 </sup></b>What, then, am I to say? That what is sacrificed to an idol is anything, or that an idol is anything? <a id="chapter10_verse20"></a><b><sup>20 </sup></b>No; but I say that the things which the nations sacrifice they sacrifice to demons, and not to God; and I do not want <span class="smcap">YOU </span>to become sharers with the demons. <a id="chapter10_verse21"></a><b><sup>21 </sup></b>Y<span class="smcap">OU </span>cannot be drinking the cup of Jehovah and the cup of demons; <span class="smcap">YOU </span>cannot be partaking of “the table of Jehovah” and the table of demons. <a id="chapter10_verse22"></a><b><sup>22 </sup></b>Or “are we inciting Jehovah to jealousy”? We are not stronger than he is, are we?</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter10_verse23"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>23 </sup>
    </b>All things are lawful; but not all things are advantageous. All things are lawful; but not all things build up. <a id="chapter10_verse24"></a><b><sup>24 </sup></b>Let each one keep seeking, not his own advantage, but that of the other person.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter10_verse25"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>25 </sup>
    </b>Everything that is sold in a meat market keep eating, making no inquiry on account of <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>conscience; <a id="chapter10_verse26"></a><b><sup>26 </sup></b>for “to Jehovah belong the earth and that which fills it.” <a id="chapter10_verse27"></a><b><sup>27 </sup></b>If anyone of the unbelievers invites <span class="smcap">YOU </span>and <span class="smcap">YOU </span>wish to go, proceed to eat everything that is set before <span class="smcap">YOU</span>, making no inquiry on account of <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>conscience. <a id="chapter10_verse28"></a><b><sup>28 </sup></b>But if anyone should say to <span class="smcap">YOU</span>: “This is something offered in sacrifice,” do not eat on account of the one that disclosed it and on account of conscience. <a id="chapter10_verse29"></a><b><sup>29 </sup></b>“Conscience,” I say, not your own, but that of the other person. For why should it be that my freedom is judged by another person’s conscience? <a id="chapter10_verse30"></a><b><sup>30 </sup></b>If I am partaking with thanks, why am I to be spoken of abusively over that for which I give thanks?</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter10_verse31"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>31 </sup>
    </b>Therefore, whether <span class="smcap">YOU </span>are eating or drinking or doing anything else, do all things for God’s glory. <a id="chapter10_verse32"></a><b><sup>32 </sup></b>Keep from becoming causes for stumbling to Jews as well as Greeks and to the congregation of God, <a id="chapter10_verse33"></a><b><sup>33 </sup></b>even as I am pleasing all people in all things, not seeking my own advantage but that of the many, in order that they might get saved.</p>
</div>