<div>
  <p class="w_biblebookname">1 Corinthians</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter15"></a>
    <a id="chapter15_verse1"></a>
    <span class="w_ch">
      <b>15 </b>
    </span>Now I make known to <span class="smcap">YOU</span>, brothers, the good news which I declared to <span class="smcap">YOU</span>, which <span class="smcap">YOU </span>also received, in which <span class="smcap">YOU </span>also stand, <a id="chapter15_verse2"></a><b><sup>2 </sup></b>through which <span class="smcap">YOU </span>are also being saved, with the speech with which I declared the good news to <span class="smcap">YOU</span>, if <span class="smcap">YOU </span>are holding it fast, unless, in fact, <span class="smcap">YOU </span>became believers to no purpose.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter15_verse3"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>3 </sup>
    </b>For I handed on to <span class="smcap">YOU</span>, among the first things, that which I also received, that Christ died for our sins according to the Scriptures; <a id="chapter15_verse4"></a><b><sup>4 </sup></b>and that he was buried, yes, that he has been raised up the third day according to the Scriptures; <a id="chapter15_verse5"></a><b><sup>5 </sup></b>and that he appeared to Ce′phas, then to the twelve. <a id="chapter15_verse6"></a><b><sup>6 </sup></b>After that he appeared to upward of five hundred brothers at one time, the most of whom remain to the present, but some have fallen asleep in death. <a id="chapter15_verse7"></a><b><sup>7 </sup></b>After that he appeared to James, then to all the apostles; <a id="chapter15_verse8"></a><b><sup>8 </sup></b>but last of all he appeared also to me as if to one born prematurely.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter15_verse9"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>9 </sup>
    </b>For I am the least of the apostles, and I am not fit to be called an apostle, because I persecuted the congregation of God. <a id="chapter15_verse10"></a><b><sup>10 </sup></b>But by God’s undeserved kindness I am what I am. And his undeserved kindness that was toward me did not prove to be in vain, but I labored in excess of them all, yet not I but the undeserved kindness of God that is with me. <a id="chapter15_verse11"></a><b><sup>11 </sup></b>However, whether it is I or they, so we are preaching and so <span class="smcap">YOU </span>have believed.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter15_verse12"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>12 </sup>
    </b>Now if Christ is being preached that he has been raised up from the dead, how is it some among <span class="smcap">YOU </span>say there is no resurrection of the dead? <a id="chapter15_verse13"></a><b><sup>13 </sup></b>If, indeed, there is no resurrection of the dead, neither has Christ been raised up. <a id="chapter15_verse14"></a><b><sup>14 </sup></b>But if Christ has not been raised up, our preaching is certainly in vain, and our faith is in vain. <a id="chapter15_verse15"></a><b><sup>15 </sup></b>Moreover, we are also found false witnesses of God, because we have borne witness against God that he raised up the Christ, but <a id="page1438"></a>whom he did not raise up if the dead are really not to be raised up. <a id="chapter15_verse16"></a><b><sup>16 </sup></b>For if the dead are not to be raised up, neither has Christ been raised up. <a id="chapter15_verse17"></a><b><sup>17 </sup></b>Further, if Christ has not been raised up, <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>faith is useless; <span class="smcap">YOU </span>are yet in <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>sins. <a id="chapter15_verse18"></a><b><sup>18 </sup></b>In fact, also, those who fell asleep in death in union with Christ perished. <a id="chapter15_verse19"></a><b><sup>19 </sup></b>If in this life only we have hoped in Christ, we are of all men most to be pitied.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter15_verse20"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>20 </sup>
    </b>However, now Christ has been raised up from the dead, the firstfruits of those who have fallen asleep in death. <a id="chapter15_verse21"></a><b><sup>21 </sup></b>For since death is through a man, resurrection of the dead is also through a man. <a id="chapter15_verse22"></a><b><sup>22 </sup></b>For just as in Adam all are dying, so also in the Christ all will be made alive. <a id="chapter15_verse23"></a><b><sup>23 </sup></b>But each one in his own rank: Christ the firstfruits, afterward those who belong to the Christ during his presence. <a id="chapter15_verse24"></a><b><sup>24 </sup></b>Next, the end, when he hands over the kingdom to his God and Father, when he has brought to nothing all government and all authority and power. <a id="chapter15_verse25"></a><b><sup>25 </sup></b>For he must rule as king until God has put all enemies under his feet. <a id="chapter15_verse26"></a><b><sup>26 </sup></b>As the last enemy, death is to be brought to nothing. <a id="chapter15_verse27"></a><b><sup>27 </sup></b>For God “subjected all things under his feet.” But when he says that ‘all things have been subjected,’ it is evident that it is with the exception of the one who subjected all things to him. <a id="chapter15_verse28"></a><b><sup>28 </sup></b>But when all things will have been subjected to him, then the Son himself will also subject himself to the One who subjected all things to him, that God may be all things to everyone.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter15_verse29"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>29 </sup>
    </b>Otherwise, what will they do who are being baptized for the purpose of being dead ones? If the dead are not to be raised up at all, why are they also being baptized for the purpose of being such? <a id="chapter15_verse30"></a><b><sup>30 </sup></b>Why are we also in peril every hour? <a id="chapter15_verse31"></a><b><sup>31 </sup></b>Daily I face death. This I affirm by the exultation over <span class="smcap">YOU</span>, brothers, which I have in Christ Jesus our Lord. <a id="chapter15_verse32"></a><b><sup>32 </sup></b>If, like men, I have fought with wild beasts at Eph′e·sus, of what good is it to me? If the dead are not to be raised up, “let us eat and drink, for tomorrow we are to die.” <a id="chapter15_verse33"></a><b><sup>33 </sup></b>Do not be misled. Bad associations spoil useful habits. <a id="chapter15_verse34"></a><b><sup>34 </sup></b>Wake up to soberness in a righteous way and do not practice sin, for some are without knowledge of God. I am speaking to move <span class="smcap">YOU </span>to shame.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter15_verse35"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>35 </sup>
    </b>Nevertheless, someone will say: “How are the dead to be raised up? Yes, with what sort of body are they coming?” <a id="chapter15_verse36"></a><b><sup>36 </sup></b>You unreasonable person! What you sow is not made alive unless first it dies; <a id="chapter15_verse37"></a><b><sup>37 </sup></b>and as for what you sow, you sow, not the body that will develop, but a bare grain, it may be, of wheat or any one of the rest; <a id="chapter15_verse38"></a><b><sup>38 </sup></b>but God gives it a body just as it has pleased him, and to each of the seeds its own body. <a id="chapter15_verse39"></a><b><sup>39 </sup></b>Not all flesh is the same flesh, but there is one of mankind, and there is another flesh of cattle, and another flesh of birds, and another of fish. <a id="chapter15_verse40"></a><b><sup>40 </sup></b>And there are heavenly bodies, and earthly bodies; but the glory of the heavenly bodies is one sort, and that of the earthly bodies is a different sort. <a id="chapter15_verse41"></a><b><sup>41 </sup></b>The glory of the sun is one sort, and the glory of the moon is another, and the glory of the stars is another; in fact, star differs from star in glory.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter15_verse42"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>42 </sup>
    </b>So also is the resurrection of the dead. It is sown in corruption, it is raised up in incorruption. <a id="chapter15_verse43"></a><b><sup>43 </sup></b>It is sown in dishonor, it is raised up in glory. It is sown in weakness, it is raised up in power. <a id="chapter15_verse44"></a><b><sup>44 </sup></b>It is sown a physical body, it is raised up a spiritual body. If there is <a id="page1439"></a>a physical body, there is also a spiritual one. <a id="chapter15_verse45"></a><b><sup>45 </sup></b>It is even so written: “The first man Adam became a living soul.” The last Adam became a life-giving spirit. <a id="chapter15_verse46"></a><b><sup>46 </sup></b>Nevertheless, the first is, not that which is spiritual, but that which is physical, afterward that which is spiritual. <a id="chapter15_verse47"></a><b><sup>47 </sup></b>The first man is out of the earth and made of dust; the second man is out of heaven. <a id="chapter15_verse48"></a><b><sup>48 </sup></b>As the one made of dust is, so those made of dust are also; and as the heavenly one is, so those who are heavenly are also. <a id="chapter15_verse49"></a><b><sup>49 </sup></b>And just as we have borne the image of the one made of dust, we shall bear also the image of the heavenly one.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter15_verse50"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>50 </sup>
    </b>However, this I say, brothers, that flesh and blood cannot inherit God’s kingdom, neither does corruption inherit incorruption. <a id="chapter15_verse51"></a><b><sup>51 </sup></b>Look! I tell <span class="smcap">YOU </span>a sacred secret: We shall not all fall asleep in death, but we shall all be changed, <a id="chapter15_verse52"></a><b><sup>52 </sup></b>in a moment, in the twinkling of an eye, during the last trumpet. For the trumpet will sound, and the dead will be raised up incorruptible, and we shall be changed. <a id="chapter15_verse53"></a><b><sup>53 </sup></b>For this which is corruptible must put on incorruption, and this which is mortal must put on immortality. <a id="chapter15_verse54"></a><b><sup>54 </sup></b>But when this which is corruptible puts on incorruption and this which is mortal puts on immortality, then the saying will take place that is written: “Death is swallowed up forever.” <a id="chapter15_verse55"></a><b><sup>55 </sup></b>“Death, where is your victory? Death, where is your sting?” <a id="chapter15_verse56"></a><b><sup>56 </sup></b>The sting producing death is sin, but the power for sin is the Law. <a id="chapter15_verse57"></a><b><sup>57 </sup></b>But thanks to God, for he gives us the victory through our Lord Jesus Christ!</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter15_verse58"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>58 </sup>
    </b>Consequently, my beloved brothers, become steadfast, unmovable, always having plenty to do in the work of the Lord, knowing that <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>labor is not in vain in connection with the Lord.</p>
</div>