<div>
  <p class="w_biblebookname">1 Corinthians</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter8"></a>
    <a id="chapter8_verse1"></a>
    <span class="w_ch">
      <b>8 </b>
    </span>Now concerning foods offered to idols: we know we all have knowledge. Knowledge puffs up, but love builds up. <a id="chapter8_verse2"></a><b><sup>2 </sup></b>If anyone thinks he has <a id="page1430"></a>acquired knowledge of something, he does not yet know it just as he ought to know it. <a id="chapter8_verse3"></a><b><sup>3 </sup></b>But if anyone loves God, this one is known by him.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter8_verse4"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>4 </sup>
    </b>Now concerning the eating of foods offered to idols, we know that an idol is nothing in the world, and that there is no God but one. <a id="chapter8_verse5"></a><b><sup>5 </sup></b>For even though there are those who are called “gods,” whether in heaven or on earth, just as there are many “gods” and many “lords,” <a id="chapter8_verse6"></a><b><sup>6 </sup></b>there is actually to us one God the Father, out of whom all things are, and we for him; and there is one Lord, Jesus Christ, through whom all things are, and we through him.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter8_verse7"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>7 </sup>
    </b>Nevertheless, there is not this knowledge in all persons; but some, being accustomed until now to the idol, eat food as something sacrificed to an idol, and their conscience, being weak, is defiled. <a id="chapter8_verse8"></a><b><sup>8 </sup></b>But food will not commend us to God; if we do not eat, we do not fall short, and, if we eat, we have no credit to ourselves. <a id="chapter8_verse9"></a><b><sup>9 </sup></b>But keep watching that this authority of <span class="smcap">YOURS </span>does not somehow become a stumbling block to those who are weak. <a id="chapter8_verse10"></a><b><sup>10 </sup></b>For if anyone should see you, the one having knowledge, reclining at a meal in an idol temple, will not the conscience of that one who is weak be built up to the point of eating foods offered to idols? <a id="chapter8_verse11"></a><b><sup>11 </sup></b>Really, by your knowledge, the man that is weak is being ruined, your brother for whose sake Christ died. <a id="chapter8_verse12"></a><b><sup>12 </sup></b>But when <span class="smcap">YOU </span>people thus sin against <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>brothers and wound their conscience that is weak, <span class="smcap">YOU </span>are sinning against Christ. <a id="chapter8_verse13"></a><b><sup>13 </sup></b>Therefore, if food makes my brother stumble, I will never again eat flesh at all, that I may not make my brother stumble.</p>
</div>