<div>
  <p class="w_biblebookname">2 Corinthians</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="page1449"></a>
    <a id="chapter11"></a>
    <a id="chapter11_verse1"></a>
    <span class="w_ch">
      <b>11 </b>
    </span>I wish <span class="smcap">YOU </span>would put up with me in some little unreasonableness. But, in fact, <span class="smcap">YOU </span>are putting up with me! <a id="chapter11_verse2"></a><b><sup>2 </sup></b>For I am jealous over <span class="smcap">YOU </span>with a godly jealousy, for I personally promised <span class="smcap">YOU </span>in marriage to one husband that I might present <span class="smcap">YOU </span>as a chaste virgin to the Christ. <a id="chapter11_verse3"></a><b><sup>3 </sup></b>But I am afraid that somehow, as the serpent seduced Eve by its cunning, <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>minds might be corrupted away from the sincerity and the chastity that are due the Christ. <a id="chapter11_verse4"></a><b><sup>4 </sup></b>For, as it is, if someone comes and preaches a Jesus other than the one we preached, or <span class="smcap">YOU </span>receive a spirit other than what <span class="smcap">YOU </span>received, or good news other than what <span class="smcap">YOU </span>accepted, <span class="smcap">YOU </span>easily put up with him. <a id="chapter11_verse5"></a><b><sup>5 </sup></b>For I consider that I have not in a single thing proved inferior to <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>superfine apostles. <a id="chapter11_verse6"></a><b><sup>6 </sup></b>But even if I am unskilled in speech, I certainly am not in knowledge; but in every way we manifested it to <span class="smcap">YOU </span>in all things.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter11_verse7"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>7 </sup>
    </b>Or did I commit a sin by humbling myself that <span class="smcap">YOU </span>might be exalted, because without cost I gladly declared the good news of God to <span class="smcap">YOU</span>? <a id="chapter11_verse8"></a><b><sup>8 </sup></b>Other congregations I robbed by accepting provisions in order to minister to <span class="smcap">YOU</span>; <a id="chapter11_verse9"></a><b><sup>9 </sup></b>and yet when I was present with <span class="smcap">YOU </span>and I fell in need, I did not become a burden to a single one, for the brothers that came from Mac·e·do′ni·a abundantly supplied my deficiency. Yes, in every way I kept myself unburdensome to <span class="smcap">YOU </span>and will keep myself so. <a id="chapter11_verse10"></a><b><sup>10 </sup></b>It is a truth of Christ in my case that no stop shall be put to this boasting of mine in the regions of A·cha′ia. <a id="chapter11_verse11"></a><b><sup>11 </sup></b>For what reason? Because I do not love <span class="smcap">YOU</span>? God knows I do.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter11_verse12"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>12 </sup>
    </b>Now what I am doing I will still do, that I may cut off the pretext from those who are wanting a pretext for being found equal to us in the office of which they boast. <a id="chapter11_verse13"></a><b><sup>13 </sup></b>For such men are false apostles, deceitful workers, transforming themselves into apostles of Christ. <a id="chapter11_verse14"></a><b><sup>14 </sup></b>And no wonder, for Satan himself keeps transforming himself into an angel of light. <a id="chapter11_verse15"></a><b><sup>15 </sup></b>It is therefore nothing great if his ministers also keep transforming themselves into ministers of righteousness. But their end shall be according to their works.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter11_verse16"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>16 </sup>
    </b>I say again, Let no man think I am unreasonable. Still, if <span class="smcap">YOU </span>really do, accept me even if as unreasonable, that I too may do some little boasting. <a id="chapter11_verse17"></a><b><sup>17 </sup></b>What I speak I speak, not after the Lord’s example, but as in unreasonableness, in this cocksureness peculiar to boasting. <a id="chapter11_verse18"></a><b><sup>18 </sup></b>Since many are boasting according to the flesh, I too will boast. <a id="chapter11_verse19"></a><b><sup>19 </sup></b>For <span class="smcap">YOU </span>gladly put up with the unreasonable persons, seeing <span class="smcap">YOU </span>are reasonable. <a id="chapter11_verse20"></a><b><sup>20 </sup></b>In fact, <span class="smcap">YOU </span>put up with whoever enslaves <span class="smcap">YOU</span>, whoever devours what <span class="smcap">YOU </span>have, whoever grabs what <span class="smcap">YOU </span>have, whoever exalts himself over <span class="smcap">YOU</span>, whoever strikes <span class="smcap">YOU </span>in the face.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter11_verse21"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>21 </sup>
    </b>I say this to our dishonor, as though our position had been weak.</p>
  <p class="sb">But if anyone else acts bold in something—I am talking unreasonably—I too am acting bold in it. <a id="chapter11_verse22"></a><b><sup>22 </sup></b>Are they Hebrews? I am one also. Are they Israelites? I am one also. Are they Abraham’s seed? I am also. <a id="chapter11_verse23"></a><b><sup>23 </sup></b>Are they ministers of Christ? I reply like a madman, I am more outstandingly one: in labors more plentifully, in prisons more plentifully, in blows to an excess, in near-deaths often. <a id="chapter11_verse24"></a><b><sup>24 </sup></b>By Jews I five times received forty strokes less one, <a id="page1450"></a><a id="chapter11_verse25"></a><b><sup>25 </sup></b>three times I was beaten with rods, once I was stoned, three times I experienced shipwreck, a night and a day I have spent in the deep; <a id="chapter11_verse26"></a><b><sup>26 </sup></b>in journeys often, in dangers from rivers, in dangers from highwaymen, in dangers from my own race, in dangers from the nations, in dangers in the city, in dangers in the wilderness, in dangers at sea, in dangers among false brothers, <a id="chapter11_verse27"></a><b><sup>27 </sup></b>in labor and toil, in sleepless nights often, in hunger and thirst, in abstinence from food many times, in cold and nakedness.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter11_verse28"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>28 </sup>
    </b>Besides those things of an external kind, there is what rushes in on me from day to day, the anxiety for all the congregations. <a id="chapter11_verse29"></a><b><sup>29 </sup></b>Who is weak, and I am not weak? Who is stumbled, and I am not incensed?</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter11_verse30"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>30 </sup>
    </b>If boasting there must be, I will boast of the things having to do with my weakness. <a id="chapter11_verse31"></a><b><sup>31 </sup></b>The God and Father of the Lord Jesus, even the One who is to be praised forever, knows I am not lying. <a id="chapter11_verse32"></a><b><sup>32 </sup></b>In Damascus the governor under A·re′tas the king was guarding the city of the Dam·a·scenes′ to seize me, <a id="chapter11_verse33"></a><b><sup>33 </sup></b>but through a window in the wall I was lowered in a wicker basket and escaped his hands.</p>
</div>