<div>
  <p class="w_biblebookname">Ephesians</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter5"></a>
    <a id="chapter5_verse1"></a>
    <span class="w_ch">
      <b>5 </b>
    </span>Therefore, become imitators of God, as beloved children, <a id="chapter5_verse2"></a><b><sup>2 </sup></b>and go on walking in love, just as the Christ also loved <span class="smcap">YOU </span>and delivered himself up for <span class="smcap">YOU </span>as an offering and a sacrifice to God for a sweet-smelling odor.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter5_verse3"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>3 </sup>
    </b>Let fornication and uncleanness of every sort or greediness not even be mentioned among <span class="smcap">YOU</span>, just as it befits holy people; <a id="chapter5_verse4"></a><b><sup>4 </sup></b>neither shameful conduct nor foolish talking nor obscene jesting, things which are not becoming, but rather the giving of thanks. <a id="chapter5_verse5"></a><b><sup>5 </sup></b>For <span class="smcap">YOU </span>know this, recognizing it for yourselves, that no fornicator or unclean person or greedy person—which means being an idolater—has any inheritance in the kingdom of the Christ and of God.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter5_verse6"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>6 </sup>
    </b>Let no man deceive <span class="smcap">YOU </span>with empty words, for because of the aforesaid things the wrath of God is coming upon the sons of disobedience. <a id="chapter5_verse7"></a><b><sup>7 </sup></b>Therefore do not become partakers with them; <a id="chapter5_verse8"></a><b><sup>8 </sup></b>for <span class="smcap">YOU </span>were once darkness, but <span class="smcap">YOU </span>are now light in connection with the Lord. Go on walking as children of light, <a id="chapter5_verse9"></a><b><sup>9 </sup></b>for the fruitage of the light consists of every sort of goodness and righteousness and truth. <a id="chapter5_verse10"></a><b><sup>10 </sup></b>Keep on making sure of what is acceptable to the Lord; <a id="chapter5_verse11"></a><b><sup>11 </sup></b>and quit sharing with them in the unfruitful works that belong to the darkness, but, rather, even be reproving them, <a id="chapter5_verse12"></a><b><sup>12 </sup></b>for the things that take place in secret by them it is shameful even to relate. <a id="chapter5_verse13"></a><b><sup>13 </sup></b>Now all the things that are being reproved are made manifest by the light, for everything that is being made manifest is light. <a id="chapter5_verse14"></a><b><sup>14 </sup></b>Wherefore he says: “Awake, O sleeper, and arise from the dead, and the Christ will shine upon you.”</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter5_verse15"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>15 </sup>
    </b>So keep strict watch that <a id="page1463"></a>how <span class="smcap">YOU </span>walk is not as unwise but as wise persons, <a id="chapter5_verse16"></a><b><sup>16 </sup></b>buying out the opportune time for yourselves, because the days are wicked. <a id="chapter5_verse17"></a><b><sup>17 </sup></b>On this account cease becoming unreasonable, but go on perceiving what the will of Jehovah is. <a id="chapter5_verse18"></a><b><sup>18 </sup></b>Also, do not be getting drunk with wine, in which there is debauchery, but keep getting filled with spirit, <a id="chapter5_verse19"></a><b><sup>19 </sup></b>speaking to yourselves with psalms and praises to God and spiritual songs, singing and accompanying yourselves with music in <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>hearts to Jehovah, <a id="chapter5_verse20"></a><b><sup>20 </sup></b>in the name of our Lord Jesus Christ giving thanks always for all things to our God and Father.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter5_verse21"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>21 </sup>
    </b>Be in subjection to one another in fear of Christ. <a id="chapter5_verse22"></a><b><sup>22 </sup></b>Let wives be in subjection to their husbands as to the Lord, <a id="chapter5_verse23"></a><b><sup>23 </sup></b>because a husband is head of his wife as the Christ also is head of the congregation, he being a savior of this body. <a id="chapter5_verse24"></a><b><sup>24 </sup></b>In fact, as the congregation is in subjection to the Christ, so let wives also be to their husbands in everything. <a id="chapter5_verse25"></a><b><sup>25 </sup></b>Husbands, continue loving <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>wives, just as the Christ also loved the congregation and delivered up himself for it, <a id="chapter5_verse26"></a><b><sup>26 </sup></b>that he might sanctify it, cleansing it with the bath of water by means of the word, <a id="chapter5_verse27"></a><b><sup>27 </sup></b>that he might present the congregation to himself in its splendor, not having a spot or a wrinkle or any of such things, but that it should be holy and without blemish.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter5_verse28"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>28 </sup>
    </b>In this way husbands ought to be loving their wives as their own bodies. He who loves his wife loves himself, <a id="chapter5_verse29"></a><b><sup>29 </sup></b>for no man ever hated his own flesh; but he feeds and cherishes it, as the Christ also does the congregation, <a id="chapter5_verse30"></a><b><sup>30 </sup></b>because we are members of his body. <a id="chapter5_verse31"></a><b><sup>31 </sup></b>“For this reason a man will leave his father and his mother and he will stick to his wife, and the two will become one flesh.” <a id="chapter5_verse32"></a><b><sup>32 </sup></b>This sacred secret is great. Now I am speaking with respect to Christ and the congregation. <a id="chapter5_verse33"></a><b><sup>33 </sup></b>Nevertheless, also, let each one of <span class="smcap">YOU </span>individually so love his wife as he does himself; on the other hand, the wife should have deep respect for her husband.</p>
</div>