<div>
  <p class="w_biblebookname">Philippians</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter4"></a>
    <a id="chapter4_verse1"></a>
    <span class="w_ch">
      <b>4 </b>
    </span>Consequently, my brothers beloved and longed for, my joy and crown, stand firm in this way in the Lord, beloved ones.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter4_verse2"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>2 </sup>
    </b>Eu·o′di·a I exhort and Syn′ty·che I exhort to be of the same mind in the Lord. <a id="chapter4_verse3"></a><b><sup>3 </sup></b>Yes, I request you too, genuine yokefellow, keep assisting these women who have striven side by side with me in the good news along with Clement as well as the rest of my fellow workers, whose names are in the book of life.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter4_verse4"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>4 </sup>
    </b>Always rejoice in the Lord. Once more I will say, Rejoice! <a id="chapter4_verse5"></a><b><sup>5 </sup></b>Let <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>reasonableness become known to all men. The Lord is near. <a id="chapter4_verse6"></a><b><sup>6 </sup></b>Do not be anxious over anything, but in everything by prayer and supplication along with thanksgiving let <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>petitions be made known to God; <a id="chapter4_verse7"></a><b><sup>7 </sup></b>and the peace of God that excels all thought will guard <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>hearts and <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>mental powers by means of Christ Jesus.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter4_verse8"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>8 </sup>
    </b>Finally, brothers, whatever things are true, whatever things are of serious concern, whatever things are righteous, whatever things are chaste, whatever things are lovable, whatever things are well spoken of, whatever virtue there is and whatever praiseworthy thing there is, continue considering these things. <a id="chapter4_verse9"></a><b><sup>9 </sup></b>The things that <span class="smcap">YOU </span>learned as well as accepted and heard and saw in connection with me, practice these; and the God of peace will be with <span class="smcap">YOU</span>.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter4_verse10"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>10 </sup>
    </b>I do rejoice greatly in the Lord that now at last <span class="smcap">YOU </span>have revived <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>thinking in my behalf, to which <span class="smcap">YOU </span>were really giving thought, but <span class="smcap">YOU </span>lacked opportunity. <a id="chapter4_verse11"></a><b><sup>11 </sup></b>Not that I am speaking with regard to being in want, for I have learned, in whatever circumstances I am, to be self-sufficient. <a id="chapter4_verse12"></a><b><sup>12 </sup></b>I know indeed how to be low on provisions, I know indeed how to have an abundance. In everything and in all circumstances I have learned the secret of both how to be full and how to hunger, both how to have an abundance and how to suffer want. <a id="chapter4_verse13"></a><b><sup>13 </sup></b>For all things I have the strength by virtue of him who imparts power to me.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter4_verse14"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>14 </sup>
    </b>Nevertheless, <span class="smcap">YOU </span>acted well in becoming sharers with me in my tribulation. <a id="chapter4_verse15"></a><b><sup>15 </sup></b>In fact, <span class="smcap">YOU </span>Phi·lip′pi·ans, also know that at the start of declaring the good news, when I departed from Mac·e·do′ni·a, not a congregation took a share with me in the matter of giving and receiving, except <span class="smcap">YOU </span>alone; <a id="chapter4_verse16"></a><b><sup>16 </sup></b>because, even in Thes·sa·lo·ni′ca, <span class="smcap">YOU </span>sent something to me both once and a second time for my need. <a id="chapter4_verse17"></a><b><sup>17 </sup></b>Not that I am earnestly seeking the gift, but that I am earnestly seeking the fruitage that brings more credit to <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>account. <a id="chapter4_verse18"></a><b><sup>18 </sup></b>However, I have all things in full and have an abundance. I am filled, now that I have received from E·paph·ro·di′tus the things from <span class="smcap">YOU</span>, a sweet-smelling odor, an acceptable <a id="page1469"></a>sacrifice, well-pleasing to God. <a id="chapter4_verse19"></a><b><sup>19 </sup></b>In turn, my God will fully supply all <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>need to the extent of his riches in glory by means of Christ Jesus. <a id="chapter4_verse20"></a><b><sup>20 </sup></b>Now to our God and Father be the glory forever and ever. Amen.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter4_verse21"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>21 </sup>
    </b>Give my greetings to every holy one in union with Christ Jesus. The brothers who are with me send <span class="smcap">YOU </span>their greetings. <a id="chapter4_verse22"></a><b><sup>22 </sup></b>All the holy ones, but especially those of the household of Caesar, send <span class="smcap">YOU </span>their greetings.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter4_verse23"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>23 </sup>
    </b>The undeserved kindness of the Lord Jesus Christ be with the spirit <span class="smcap">YOU </span>show.</p>
</div>