<div>
  <p class="w_biblebookname">1 Thessalonians</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter4"></a>
    <a id="chapter4_verse1"></a>
    <span class="w_ch">
      <b>4 </b>
    </span>Finally, brothers, we request <span class="smcap">YOU </span>and exhort <span class="smcap">YOU </span>by the Lord Jesus, just as <span class="smcap">YOU </span>received the instruction from us on how <span class="smcap">YOU </span>ought to walk and please God, just as <span class="smcap">YOU </span>are in fact walking, that <span class="smcap">YOU </span>would keep on doing it more fully. <a id="chapter4_verse2"></a><b><sup>2 </sup></b>For <span class="smcap">YOU </span>know the orders we gave <span class="smcap">YOU </span>through the Lord Jesus.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter4_verse3"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>3 </sup>
    </b>For this is what God wills, the sanctifying of <span class="smcap">YOU</span>, that <span class="smcap">YOU </span>abstain from fornication; <a id="chapter4_verse4"></a><b><sup>4 </sup></b>that each one of <span class="smcap">YOU </span>should know how to get possession of his own vessel in sanctification and honor, <a id="chapter4_verse5"></a><b><sup>5 </sup></b>not in covetous sexual appetite such as also those nations have which do not know God; <a id="chapter4_verse6"></a><b><sup>6 </sup></b>that no one go to the point of harming and encroach upon the rights of his brother in this matter, because Jehovah is one who exacts punishment for all these things, just as we told <span class="smcap">YOU </span>beforehand and also gave <span class="smcap">YOU </span>a thorough witness. <a id="chapter4_verse7"></a><b><sup>7 </sup></b>For God called us, not with allowance for uncleanness, but in connection with sanctification. <a id="chapter4_verse8"></a><b><sup>8 </sup></b>So, then, the man that shows disregard is disregarding, not man, but God, who puts his holy spirit in <span class="smcap">YOU</span>.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter4_verse9"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>9 </sup>
    </b>However, with reference to brotherly love, <span class="smcap">YOU </span>do not need us to be writing <span class="smcap">YOU</span>, for <span class="smcap">YOU </span>yourselves are taught by God to love one another; <a id="chapter4_verse10"></a><b><sup>10 </sup></b>and, <a id="page1476"></a>in fact, <span class="smcap">YOU </span>are doing it to all the brothers in all of Mac·e·do′ni·a. But we exhort <span class="smcap">YOU</span>, brothers, to go on doing it in fuller measure, <a id="chapter4_verse11"></a><b><sup>11 </sup></b>and to make it <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>aim to live quietly and to mind <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>own business and work with <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>hands, just as we ordered <span class="smcap">YOU</span>; <a id="chapter4_verse12"></a><b><sup>12 </sup></b>so that <span class="smcap">YOU </span>may be walking decently as regards people outside and not be needing anything.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter4_verse13"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>13 </sup>
    </b>Moreover, brothers, we do not want <span class="smcap">YOU </span>to be ignorant concerning those who are falling asleep in death; that <span class="smcap">YOU </span>may not sorrow just as the rest also do who have no hope. <a id="chapter4_verse14"></a><b><sup>14 </sup></b>For if our faith is that Jesus died and rose again, so, too, those who have fallen asleep in death through Jesus God will bring with him. <a id="chapter4_verse15"></a><b><sup>15 </sup></b>For this is what we tell <span class="smcap">YOU </span>by Jehovah’s word, that we the living who survive to the presence of the Lord shall in no way precede those who have fallen asleep in death; <a id="chapter4_verse16"></a><b><sup>16 </sup></b>because the Lord himself will descend from heaven with a commanding call, with an archangel’s voice and with God’s trumpet, and those who are dead in union with Christ will rise first. <a id="chapter4_verse17"></a><b><sup>17 </sup></b>Afterward we the living who are surviving will, together with them, be caught away in clouds to meet the Lord in the air; and thus we shall always be with the Lord. <a id="chapter4_verse18"></a><b><sup>18 </sup></b>Consequently keep comforting one another with these words.</p>
</div>