<div>
  <p class="w_biblebookname">2 Timothy</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter3"></a>
    <a id="chapter3_verse1"></a>
    <span class="w_ch">
      <b>3 </b>
    </span>But know this, that in the last days critical times hard to deal with will be here. <a id="chapter3_verse2"></a><b><sup>2 </sup></b>For men will be lovers of themselves, lovers of money, self-assuming, haughty, blasphemers, disobedient to parents, unthankful, disloyal, <a id="chapter3_verse3"></a><b><sup>3 </sup></b>having no natural affection, not open to any agreement, slanderers, without self-control, fierce, without love of goodness, <a id="chapter3_verse4"></a><b><sup>4 </sup></b>betrayers, headstrong, puffed up with pride, lovers of pleasures rather than lovers of God, <a id="chapter3_verse5"></a><b><sup>5 </sup></b>having a form of godly devotion but proving false to its power; and from these turn away. <a id="chapter3_verse6"></a><b><sup>6 </sup></b>For from these arise those men who slyly work their way into households and lead as their captives weak women loaded down with sins, led by various desires, <a id="chapter3_verse7"></a><b><sup>7 </sup></b>always learning and yet never able to come to an accurate knowledge of truth.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter3_verse8"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>8 </sup>
    </b>Now in the way that Jan′nes and Jam′bres resisted Moses, so these also go on resisting <a id="page1487"></a>the truth, men completely corrupted in mind, disapproved as regards the faith. <a id="chapter3_verse9"></a><b><sup>9 </sup></b>Nevertheless, they will make no further progress, for their madness will be very plain to all, even as the madness of those two men became. <a id="chapter3_verse10"></a><b><sup>10 </sup></b>But you have closely followed my teaching, my course of life, my purpose, my faith, my long-suffering, my love, my endurance, <a id="chapter3_verse11"></a><b><sup>11 </sup></b>my persecutions, my sufferings, the sort of things that happened to me in Antioch, in I·co′ni·um, in Lys′tra, the sort of persecutions I have borne; and yet out of them all the Lord delivered me. <a id="chapter3_verse12"></a><b><sup>12 </sup></b>In fact, all those desiring to live with godly devotion in association with Christ Jesus will also be persecuted. <a id="chapter3_verse13"></a><b><sup>13 </sup></b>But wicked men and impostors will advance from bad to worse, misleading and being misled.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter3_verse14"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>14 </sup>
    </b>You, however, continue in the things that you learned and were persuaded to believe, knowing from what persons you learned them <a id="chapter3_verse15"></a><b><sup>15 </sup></b>and that from infancy you have known the holy writings, which are able to make you wise for salvation through the faith in connection with Christ Jesus. <a id="chapter3_verse16"></a><b><sup>16 </sup></b>All Scripture is inspired of God and beneficial for teaching, for reproving, for setting things straight, for disciplining in righteousness, <a id="chapter3_verse17"></a><b><sup>17 </sup></b>that the man of God may be fully competent, completely equipped for every good work.</p>
</div>