<div>
  <p class="w_biblebookname">To Philemon</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter1"></a>
    <a id="chapter1_verse1"></a>
    <span class="w_ch">
      <b>
        <sup>1 </sup>
      </b>
    </span>Paul, a prisoner for the sake of Christ Jesus, and Timothy, our brother, to Phi·le′mon, our beloved one and fellow worker, <a id="chapter1_verse2"></a><b><sup>2 </sup></b>and to Ap′phi·a, our sister, and to Ar·chip′pus, our fellow soldier, and to the congregation that is in your house:</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter1_verse3"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>3 </sup>
    </b>May <span class="smcap">YOU </span>people have undeserved kindness and peace from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter1_verse4"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>4 </sup>
    </b>I always thank my God when I make mention of you in my prayers, <a id="chapter1_verse5"></a><b><sup>5 </sup></b>as I keep hearing of your love and faith which you have toward the Lord Jesus and toward all the holy ones; <a id="chapter1_verse6"></a><b><sup>6 </sup></b>in order that the sharing of your faith may go into action by your acknowledging of every good thing among us as related to Christ. <a id="chapter1_verse7"></a><b><sup>7 </sup></b>For I got much joy and comfort over your love, because the tender affections of the holy ones have been refreshed through you, brother.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter1_verse8"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>8 </sup>
    </b>For this very reason, though I have great freeness of speech in connection with Christ to order you to do what is proper, <a id="chapter1_verse9"></a><b><sup>9 </sup></b>I am exhorting you rather on the basis of love, seeing that I am such as I am, Paul an aged man, yes, now also a prisoner for the sake of Christ Jesus; <a id="chapter1_verse10"></a><b><sup>10 </sup></b>I am exhorting you concerning my child, to whom I became a father <a id="page1491"></a>while in my prison bonds, O·nes′i·mus, <a id="chapter1_verse11"></a><b><sup>11 </sup></b>formerly useless to you but now useful to you and to me. <a id="chapter1_verse12"></a><b><sup>12 </sup></b>This very one I am sending back to you, yes, him, that is, my own tender affections.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter1_verse13"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>13 </sup>
    </b>I would like to hold him back for myself that in place of you he might keep on ministering to me in the prison bonds I bear for the sake of the good news. <a id="chapter1_verse14"></a><b><sup>14 </sup></b>But without your consent I do not want to do anything, so that your good act may be, not as under compulsion, but of your own free will. <a id="chapter1_verse15"></a><b><sup>15 </sup></b>Perhaps really on this account he broke away for an hour, that you may have him back forever, <a id="chapter1_verse16"></a><b><sup>16 </sup></b>no longer as a slave but as more than a slave, as a brother beloved, especially so to me, yet how much more so to you both in fleshly relationship and in the Lord. <a id="chapter1_verse17"></a><b><sup>17 </sup></b>If, therefore, you consider me a sharer, receive him kindly the way you would me. <a id="chapter1_verse18"></a><b><sup>18 </sup></b>Moreover, if he did you any wrong or owes you anything, keep this charged to my account. <a id="chapter1_verse19"></a><b><sup>19 </sup></b>I Paul am writing with my own hand: I will pay it back—not to be telling you that, besides, you owe me even yourself. <a id="chapter1_verse20"></a><b><sup>20 </sup></b>Yes, brother, may I derive profit from you in connection with the Lord: refresh my tender affections in connection with Christ.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter1_verse21"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>21 </sup>
    </b>Trusting in your compliance, I am writing you, knowing you will even do more than the things I say. <a id="chapter1_verse22"></a><b><sup>22 </sup></b>But along with that, also get lodging ready for me, for I am hoping that through the prayers of <span class="smcap">YOU </span>people I shall be set at liberty for <span class="smcap">YOU</span>.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter1_verse23"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>23 </sup>
    </b>Sending you greetings is Ep′a·phras my fellow captive in union with Christ Jesus, <a id="chapter1_verse24"></a><b><sup>24 </sup></b>also Mark, Ar·is·tar′chus, De′mas, Luke, my fellow workers.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter1_verse25"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>25 </sup>
    </b>The undeserved kindness of the Lord Jesus Christ be with the spirit <span class="smcap">YOU </span>people show.</p>
</div>