<div>
  <p class="w_biblebookname">Hebrews</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter4"></a>
    <a id="chapter4_verse1"></a>
    <span class="w_ch">
      <b>4 </b>
    </span>Therefore, since a promise is left of entering into his rest, let us fear that sometime someone of <span class="smcap">YOU </span>may seem to have fallen short of it. <a id="chapter4_verse2"></a><b><sup>2 </sup></b>For we have had the good news declared to us also, even as they also had; but the word which was heard did not benefit them, because they were not united by faith with those who did hear. <a id="chapter4_verse3"></a><b><sup>3 </sup></b>For we who have exercised faith do enter into the rest, just as he has said: “So I swore in my anger, ‘They shall not enter into my rest,’” although his works were finished from the founding of the world. <a id="chapter4_verse4"></a><b><sup>4 </sup></b>For in one place he has said of the seventh day as follows: “And God rested on the seventh day from all his works,” <a id="chapter4_verse5"></a><b><sup>5 </sup></b>and again in this place: “They shall not enter into my rest.”</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter4_verse6"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>6 </sup>
    </b>Since, therefore, it remains for some to enter into it, and those to whom the good news was first declared did not enter in because of disobedience, <a id="chapter4_verse7"></a><b><sup>7 </sup></b>he again marks off a certain day by saying after so long a time in David’s psalm “Today”; just as it has been said above: “Today if <span class="smcap">YOU </span>people listen to his own voice, do not harden <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>hearts.” <a id="chapter4_verse8"></a><b><sup>8 </sup></b>For if Joshua had led them into a place of rest, God would not afterward have spoken of another day. <a id="chapter4_verse9"></a><b><sup>9 </sup></b>So there remains a sabbath resting for the people of God. <a id="chapter4_verse10"></a><b><sup>10 </sup></b>For the man that has entered into God’s rest has also himself rested from his own works, just as God did from his own.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter4_verse11"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>11 </sup>
    </b>Let us therefore do our utmost to enter into that rest, for fear anyone should fall in the same pattern of disobedience. <a id="chapter4_verse12"></a><b><sup>12 </sup></b>For the word of God is alive and exerts power and is sharper than any two-edged sword and pierces even to the dividing of soul and spirit, and of joints and their marrow, and is able to discern thoughts and intentions of the heart. <a id="chapter4_verse13"></a><b><sup>13 </sup></b>And there is not a creation that is not manifest to his sight, but all things are naked and openly exposed to the eyes of him with whom we have an accounting.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter4_verse14"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>14 </sup>
    </b>Seeing, therefore, that we have a great high priest who has passed through the heavens, Jesus the Son of God, let us hold onto our confessing of him. <a id="chapter4_verse15"></a><b><sup>15 </sup></b>For we have as high priest, not one who cannot sympathize with our weaknesses, but one who has been tested in all respects like ourselves, but without sin. <a id="chapter4_verse16"></a><b><sup>16 </sup></b>Let us, therefore, approach with freeness of speech to the throne of undeserved kindness, that we may obtain mercy and find undeserved kindness for help at the right time.</p>
</div>