<div>
  <p class="w_biblebookname">1 Peter</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter4"></a>
    <a id="chapter4_verse1"></a>
    <span class="w_ch">
      <b>4 </b>
    </span>Therefore since Christ suffered in the flesh, <span class="smcap">YOU </span>too arm yourselves with the same mental disposition; because the person that has suffered in the flesh has desisted from sins, <a id="chapter4_verse2"></a><b><sup>2 </sup></b>to the end that he may live the remainder of his time in the flesh, no more for the desires of men, but for God’s will. <a id="chapter4_verse3"></a><b><sup>3 </sup></b>For the time that has passed by is sufficient for <span class="smcap">YOU </span>to have worked out the will of the nations when <span class="smcap">YOU </span>proceeded in deeds of loose conduct, lusts, excesses with wine, revelries, drinking matches, and illegal idolatries. <a id="chapter4_verse4"></a><b><sup>4 </sup></b>Because <span class="smcap">YOU </span>do not continue running with them in this course to the same low sink of debauchery, they are puzzled and go on speaking abusively of <span class="smcap">YOU</span>. <a id="chapter4_verse5"></a><b><sup>5 </sup></b>But these people will render an account to the one ready to judge those living and those dead. <a id="chapter4_verse6"></a><b><sup>6 </sup></b>In fact, for this purpose the good news was declared also to the dead, that they might be judged as to the flesh from the standpoint of men but might live as to the spirit from the standpoint of God.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter4_verse7"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>7 </sup>
    </b>But the end of all things has drawn close. Be sound in mind, therefore, and be vigilant with a view to prayers. <a id="chapter4_verse8"></a><b><sup>8 </sup></b>Above all things, have intense love for one another, because love covers a multitude of sins. <a id="chapter4_verse9"></a><b><sup>9 </sup></b>Be hospitable to one another without grumbling. <a id="chapter4_verse10"></a><b><sup>10 </sup></b>In proportion as each one has received a gift, use it in ministering to one another as fine stewards of God’s undeserved kindness expressed in various ways. <a id="chapter4_verse11"></a><b><sup>11 </sup></b>If anyone speaks, let him speak as it were the sacred pronouncements of God; if anyone ministers, let him minister as dependent on <a id="page1514"></a>the strength that God supplies; so that in all things God may be glorified through Jesus Christ. The glory and the might are his forever and ever. Amen.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter4_verse12"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>12 </sup>
    </b>Beloved ones, do not be puzzled at the burning among <span class="smcap">YOU</span>, which is happening to <span class="smcap">YOU </span>for a trial, as though a strange thing were befalling <span class="smcap">YOU</span>. <a id="chapter4_verse13"></a><b><sup>13 </sup></b>On the contrary, go on rejoicing forasmuch as <span class="smcap">YOU </span>are sharers in the sufferings of the Christ, that <span class="smcap">YOU </span>may rejoice and be overjoyed also during the revelation of his glory. <a id="chapter4_verse14"></a><b><sup>14 </sup></b>If <span class="smcap">YOU </span>are being reproached for the name of Christ, <span class="smcap">YOU </span>are happy, because the spirit of glory, even the spirit of God, is resting upon <span class="smcap">YOU</span>.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter4_verse15"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>15 </sup>
    </b>However, let none of <span class="smcap">YOU </span>suffer as a murderer or a thief or an evildoer or as a busybody in other people’s matters. <a id="chapter4_verse16"></a><b><sup>16 </sup></b>But if he suffers as a Christian, let him not feel shame, but let him keep on glorifying God in this name. <a id="chapter4_verse17"></a><b><sup>17 </sup></b>For it is the appointed time for the judgment to start with the house of God. Now if it starts first with us, what will the end be of those who are not obedient to the good news of God? <a id="chapter4_verse18"></a><b><sup>18 </sup></b>“And if the righteous man is being saved with difficulty, where will the ungodly man and the sinner make a showing?” <a id="chapter4_verse19"></a><b><sup>19 </sup></b>So, then, also let those who are suffering in harmony with the will of God keep on commending their souls to a faithful Creator while they are doing good.</p>
</div>