<div>
  <p class="w_biblebookname">The First of Peter</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter1"></a>
    <a id="chapter1_verse1"></a>
    <span class="w_ch">
      <b>1 </b>
    </span>Peter, an apostle of Jesus Christ, to the temporary residents scattered about in Pon′tus, Ga·la′ti·a, Cap·pa·do′ci·a, Asia, and Bi·thyn′i·a, to the ones chosen <a id="chapter1_verse2"></a><b><sup>2 </sup></b>according to the foreknowledge of God the Father, with sanctification by the spirit, for the purpose of their being obedient and sprinkled with the blood of Jesus Christ:</p>
  <p class="sb">May undeserved kindness and peace be increased to <span class="smcap">YOU</span>.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter1_verse3"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>3 </sup>
    </b>Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, for according to his great mercy he gave us a new birth to a living hope through the resurrection of Jesus Christ from the dead, <a id="chapter1_verse4"></a><b><sup>4 </sup></b>to an incorruptible and undefiled and unfading inheritance. It is reserved in the heavens for <span class="smcap">YOU</span>, <a id="chapter1_verse5"></a><b><sup>5 </sup></b>who are being safeguarded by God’s power through faith for a salvation ready to be revealed in the last period of time. <a id="chapter1_verse6"></a><b><sup>6 </sup></b>In this fact <span class="smcap">YOU </span>are greatly rejoicing, though for a little while at present, if it must be, <span class="smcap">YOU </span>have been grieved by various trials, <a id="chapter1_verse7"></a><b><sup>7 </sup></b>in order that the tested quality of <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>faith, of much greater value than gold that perishes despite its being proved by fire, may be found a cause for praise and glory and honor at the revelation of Jesus Christ. <a id="chapter1_verse8"></a><b><sup>8 </sup></b>Though <span class="smcap">YOU </span>never saw him, <span class="smcap">YOU </span>love him. Though <span class="smcap">YOU </span>are not looking upon him at present, yet <span class="smcap">YOU </span>exercise faith in him and are greatly rejoicing with an unspeakable and glorified joy, <a id="chapter1_verse9"></a><b><sup>9 </sup></b>as <span class="smcap">YOU </span>receive the end of <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>faith, the salvation of <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>souls.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter1_verse10"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>10 </sup>
    </b>Concerning this very salvation a diligent inquiry and a careful search were made by the prophets who prophesied about the undeserved kindness meant for <span class="smcap">YOU</span>. <a id="chapter1_verse11"></a><b><sup>11 </sup></b>They kept on investigating what particular season or what sort of season the spirit in them was indicating concerning Christ when it was bearing witness beforehand about the sufferings for Christ and about the glories to follow these. <a id="chapter1_verse12"></a><b><sup>12 </sup></b>It was revealed to them that, not to themselves, but to <span class="smcap">YOU</span>, they were ministering the things that have now been announced to <span class="smcap">YOU </span>through those who have declared the good news to <span class="smcap">YOU </span>with holy spirit sent forth from heaven. Into these very things angels are desiring to peer.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter1_verse13"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>13 </sup>
    </b>Hence brace up <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>minds for activity, keep <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>senses completely; set <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>hope upon the undeserved kindness that is to be brought to <span class="smcap">YOU </span>at the revelation of Jesus Christ. <a id="chapter1_verse14"></a><b><sup>14 </sup></b>As obedient children, quit being fashioned according to the desires <span class="smcap">YOU </span>formerly had in <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>ignorance, <a id="chapter1_verse15"></a><b><sup>15 </sup></b>but, in accord with the Holy One who called <span class="smcap">YOU</span>, do <span class="smcap">YOU </span>also become holy yourselves in all <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>conduct, <a id="chapter1_verse16"></a><b><sup>16 </sup></b>because it is written: “Y<span class="smcap">OU </span>must be holy, because I am holy.”</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter1_verse17"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>17 </sup>
    </b>Furthermore, if <span class="smcap">YOU </span>are calling upon the Father who judges impartially according to each one’s work, conduct yourselves with fear during the time of <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>alien residence. <a id="chapter1_verse18"></a><b><sup>18 </sup></b>For <span class="smcap">YOU </span>know that it was not with corruptible things, with silver or gold, that <span class="smcap">YOU </span>were delivered from <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>fruitless form of conduct received by tradition from <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>forefathers. <a id="chapter1_verse19"></a><b><sup>19 </sup></b>But <a id="page1511"></a>it was with precious blood, like that of an unblemished and spotless lamb, even Christ’s. <a id="chapter1_verse20"></a><b><sup>20 </sup></b>True, he was foreknown before the founding of the world, but he was made manifest at the end of the times for the sake of <span class="smcap">YOU </span><a id="chapter1_verse21"></a><b><sup>21 </sup></b>who through him are believers in God, the one who raised him up from the dead and gave him glory; so that <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>faith and hope might be in God.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter1_verse22"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>22 </sup>
    </b>Now that <span class="smcap">YOU </span>have purified <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>souls by <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>obedience to the truth with unhypocritical brotherly affection as the result, love one another intensely from the heart. <a id="chapter1_verse23"></a><b><sup>23 </sup></b>For <span class="smcap">YOU </span>have been given a new birth, not by corruptible, but by incorruptible reproductive seed, through the word of the living and enduring God. <a id="chapter1_verse24"></a><b><sup>24 </sup></b>For “all flesh is like grass, and all its glory is like a blossom of grass; the grass becomes withered, and the flower falls off, <a id="chapter1_verse25"></a><b><sup>25 </sup></b>but the saying of Jehovah endures forever.” Well, this is the “saying,” this which has been declared to <span class="smcap">YOU </span>as good news.</p>
</div>