<div>
  <p class="w_biblebookname">1 Peter</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter5"></a>
    <a id="chapter5_verse1"></a>
    <span class="w_ch">
      <b>5 </b>
    </span>Therefore, to the older men among <span class="smcap">YOU </span>I give this exhortation, for I too am an older man with them and a witness of the sufferings of the Christ, a sharer even of the glory that is to be revealed: <a id="chapter5_verse2"></a><b><sup>2 </sup></b>Shepherd the flock of God in <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>care, not under compulsion, but willingly; neither for love of dishonest gain, but eagerly; <a id="chapter5_verse3"></a><b><sup>3 </sup></b>neither as lording it over those who are God’s inheritance, but becoming examples to the flock. <a id="chapter5_verse4"></a><b><sup>4 </sup></b>And when the chief shepherd has been made manifest, <span class="smcap">YOU </span>will receive the unfadable crown of glory.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter5_verse5"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>5 </sup>
    </b>In like manner, <span class="smcap">YOU </span>younger men, be in subjection to the older men. But all of <span class="smcap">YOU </span>gird yourselves with lowliness of mind toward one another, because God opposes the haughty ones, but he gives undeserved kindness to the humble ones.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter5_verse6"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>6 </sup>
    </b>Humble yourselves, therefore, under the mighty hand of God, that he may exalt <span class="smcap">YOU </span>in due time; <a id="chapter5_verse7"></a><b><sup>7 </sup></b>while <span class="smcap">YOU </span>throw all <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>anxiety upon him, because he cares for <span class="smcap">YOU</span>. <a id="chapter5_verse8"></a><b><sup>8 </sup></b>Keep <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>senses, be watchful. Y<span class="smcap">OUR </span>adversary, the Devil, walks about like a roaring lion, seeking to devour someone. <a id="chapter5_verse9"></a><b><sup>9 </sup></b>But take <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>stand against him, solid in the faith, knowing that the same things in the way of sufferings are being accomplished in the entire association of <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>brothers in the world. <a id="chapter5_verse10"></a><b><sup>10 </sup></b>But, after <span class="smcap">YOU </span>have suffered a little while, the God of all undeserved kindness, who called <span class="smcap">YOU </span>to his everlasting glory in union with Christ, will himself finish <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>training, he will make <span class="smcap">YOU </span>firm, he will make <span class="smcap">YOU </span>strong. <a id="chapter5_verse11"></a><b><sup>11 </sup></b>To him be the might forever. Amen.</p>
  <p class="sb">
    <a id="chapter5_verse12"></a>
    <b>
      <sup>12 </sup>
    </b>Through Sil·va′nus, a faithful brother, as I account him, I have written <span class="smcap">YOU </span>in few words, to give encouragement and an earnest witness that this is the true undeserved kindness of God; in which stand firm. <a id="chapter5_verse13"></a><b><sup>13 </sup></b>She who is in Babylon, a chosen one like <span class="smcap">YOU</span>, sends <span class="smcap">YOU </span>her greetings, and so does Mark my son. <a id="chapter5_verse14"></a><b><sup>14 </sup></b>Greet one another with a kiss of love.</p>
  <p class="sb">May all of <span class="smcap">YOU </span>who are in union with Christ have peace.</p>
</div>