<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="application/xhtml+xml; charset=utf-8" />
<title>Genesis 36</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/bi12.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
<p class="w_biblebookname">Genesis</p><p class="sb"><a id="chapter36"></a><a id="chapter36_verse1"></a><span class="w_ch"><b>36 </b></span>And this is the history of E′sau, that is to say, E′dom.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter36_verse2"></a><b><sup>2 </sup></b>E′sau took his wives from the daughters of Ca′naan: A′dah the daughter of E′lon the Hit′tite and O·hol·i·ba′mah the <a id="page54"></a>daughter of A′nah, the granddaughter of Zib′e·on the Hi′vite, <a id="chapter36_verse3"></a><b><sup>3 </sup></b>and Bas′e·math, Ish′ma·el’s daughter, the sister of Ne·ba′ioth.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter36_verse4"></a><b><sup>4 </sup></b>And A′dah proceeded to bear El′i·phaz to E′sau, and Bas′e·math bore Reu′el,</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter36_verse5"></a><b><sup>5 </sup></b>and O·hol·i·ba′mah bore Je′ush and Ja′lam and Ko′rah.</p>
<p class="sb">These are the sons of E′sau who were born to him in the land of Ca′naan. <a id="chapter36_verse6"></a><b><sup>6 </sup></b>After that E′sau took his wives and his sons and his daughters and all the souls of his house and his herd and all his other beasts and all his wealth, which he had accumulated in the land of Ca′naan, and went to a land away from Jacob his brother, <a id="chapter36_verse7"></a><b><sup>7 </sup></b>because their goods had become too great for them to dwell together and the land of their alien residences was not able to sustain them as a result of their herds. <a id="chapter36_verse8"></a><b><sup>8 </sup></b>So E′sau took up dwelling in the mountainous region of Se′ir. E′sau is E′dom.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter36_verse9"></a><b><sup>9 </sup></b>And this is the history of E′sau the father of E′dom in the mountainous region of Se′ir.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter36_verse10"></a><b><sup>10 </sup></b>These are the names of the sons of E′sau: El′i·phaz the son of A′dah, E′sau’s wife; Reu′el the son of Bas′e·math, E′sau’s wife.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter36_verse11"></a><b><sup>11 </sup></b>And the sons of El′i·phaz came to be Te′man, O′mar, Ze′pho and Ga′tam and Ke′naz. <a id="chapter36_verse12"></a><b><sup>12 </sup></b>And Tim′na became the concubine of El′i·phaz, E′sau’s son. In time she bore to El′i·phaz Am′a·lek. These are the sons of A′dah, E′sau’s wife.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter36_verse13"></a><b><sup>13 </sup></b>These are the sons of Reu′el: Na′hath and Ze′rah, Sham′mah and Miz′zah. These came to be the sons of Bas′e·math, E′sau’s wife.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter36_verse14"></a><b><sup>14 </sup></b>And these came to be the sons of O·hol·i·ba′mah the daughter of A′nah, the granddaughter of Zib′e·on, E′sau’s wife, in that she bore to E′sau Je′ush and Ja′lam and Ko′rah.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter36_verse15"></a><b><sup>15 </sup></b>These are the sheiks of the sons of E′sau: The sons of El′i·phaz, E′sau’s firstborn: Sheik Te′man, sheik O′mar, sheik Ze′pho, sheik Ke′naz, <a id="chapter36_verse16"></a><b><sup>16 </sup></b>sheik Ko′rah, sheik Ga′tam, sheik Am′a·lek. These are the sheiks of El′i·phaz in the land of E′dom. These are the sons by A′dah.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter36_verse17"></a><b><sup>17 </sup></b>These are the sons of Reu′el, E′sau’s son: Sheik Na′hath, sheik Ze′rah, sheik Sham′mah, sheik Miz′zah. These are the sheiks of Reu′el in the land of E′dom. These are the sons by Bas′e·math, E′sau’s wife.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter36_verse18"></a><b><sup>18 </sup></b>Finally these are the sons of O·hol·i·ba′mah, E′sau’s wife: Sheik Je′ush, sheik Ja′lam, sheik Ko′rah. These are the sheiks of O·hol·i·ba′mah the daughter of A′nah, E′sau’s wife.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter36_verse19"></a><b><sup>19 </sup></b>These are the sons of E′sau, and these are their sheiks. He is E′dom.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter36_verse20"></a><b><sup>20 </sup></b>These are the sons of Se′ir the Hor′ite, the inhabitants of the land: Lo′tan and Sho′bal and Zib′e·on and A′nah <a id="chapter36_verse21"></a><b><sup>21 </sup></b>and Di′shon and E′zer and Di′shan. These are the sheiks of the Hor′ite, the sons of Se′ir, in the land of E′dom.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter36_verse22"></a><b><sup>22 </sup></b>And the sons of Lo′tan came to be Ho′ri and He′mam; and Lo′tan’s sister was Tim′na.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter36_verse23"></a><b><sup>23 </sup></b>And these are the sons of Sho′bal: Al′van and Man′a·hath and E′bal, She′pho and O′nam.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter36_verse24"></a><b><sup>24 </sup></b>And these are the sons of Zib′e·on: A′iah and A′nah. This is the A′nah who found the hot springs in the wilderness while he was tending the asses for Zib′e·on his father.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter36_verse25"></a><b><sup>25 </sup></b>And these are the children of A′nah: Di′shon and O·hol·i·ba′mah the daughter of A′nah.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter36_verse26"></a><b><sup>26 </sup></b>And these are the sons of Di′shon: Hem′dan and Esh′ban and Ith′ran and Che′ran.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="page55"></a><a id="chapter36_verse27"></a><b><sup>27 </sup></b>These are the sons of E′zer: Bil′han and Za′a·van and A′kan.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter36_verse28"></a><b><sup>28 </sup></b>These are the sons of Di′shan: Uz and A′ran.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter36_verse29"></a><b><sup>29 </sup></b>These are the sheiks of the Hor′ite: Sheik Lo′tan, sheik Sho′bal, sheik Zib′e·on, sheik A′nah, <a id="chapter36_verse30"></a><b><sup>30 </sup></b>sheik Di′shon, sheik E′zer, sheik Di′shan. These are the sheiks of the Hor′ite according to their sheiks in the land of Se′ir.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter36_verse31"></a><b><sup>31 </sup></b>Now these are the kings who reigned in the land of E′dom before any king reigned over the sons of Israel. <a id="chapter36_verse32"></a><b><sup>32 </sup></b>And Be′la son of Be′or proceeded to reign in E′dom, and the name of his city was Din′ha·bah. <a id="chapter36_verse33"></a><b><sup>33 </sup></b>When Be′la died, Jo′bab son of Ze′rah from Boz′rah began to reign instead of him. <a id="chapter36_verse34"></a><b><sup>34 </sup></b>When Jo′bab died, Hu′sham from the land of the Te′man·ites began to reign instead of him. <a id="chapter36_verse35"></a><b><sup>35 </sup></b>When Hu′sham died, Ha′dad son of Be′dad, who defeated the Mid′i·an·ites in the field of Mo′ab, began to reign instead of him, and the name of his city was A′vith. <a id="chapter36_verse36"></a><b><sup>36 </sup></b>When Ha′dad died, Sam′lah from Mas·re′kah began to reign instead of him. <a id="chapter36_verse37"></a><b><sup>37 </sup></b>When Sam′lah died, Sha′ul from Re·ho′both by the River began to reign instead of him. <a id="chapter36_verse38"></a><b><sup>38 </sup></b>When Sha′ul died, Ba′al-ha′nan son of Ach′bor began to reign instead of him. <a id="chapter36_verse39"></a><b><sup>39 </sup></b>When Ba′al-ha′nan son of Ach′bor died, Ha′dar began to reign instead of him; and the name of his city was Pa′u, and the name of his wife was Me·het′a·bel the daughter of Ma′tred the daughter of Me′za·hab.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter36_verse40"></a><b><sup>40 </sup></b>So these are the names of the sheiks of E′sau according to their families, according to their places, by their names: Sheik Tim′na, sheik Al′vah, sheik Je′theth, <a id="chapter36_verse41"></a><b><sup>41 </sup></b>sheik O·hol·i·ba′mah, sheik E′lah, sheik Pi′non, <a id="chapter36_verse42"></a><b><sup>42 </sup></b>sheik Ke′naz, sheik Te′man, sheik Mib′zar, <a id="chapter36_verse43"></a><b><sup>43 </sup></b>sheik Mag′di·el, sheik I′ram. These are the sheiks of E′dom according to their dwellings in the land of their possession. This is E′sau the father of E′dom.</p>
</body>
</html>
