<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="application/xhtml+xml; charset=utf-8" />
<title>Genesis 13</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/bi12.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
<p class="w_biblebookname">Genesis</p><p class="sb"><a id="chapter13"></a><a id="chapter13_verse1"></a><span class="w_ch"><b>13 </b></span>Following that A′bram went up out of Egypt, he and his wife and all that he had, and Lot with him, to the Neg′eb. <a id="chapter13_verse2"></a><b><sup>2 </sup></b>And A′bram was heavily stocked with herds and silver and gold. <a id="chapter13_verse3"></a><b><sup>3 </sup></b>And he made <a id="page21"></a>his way from encampment to encampment out of the Neg′eb and to Beth′el, to the place where his tent had been at first between Beth′el and A′i, <a id="chapter13_verse4"></a><b><sup>4 </sup></b>to the place of the altar that he had made there originally; and A′bram proceeded to call there on the name of Jehovah.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter13_verse5"></a><b><sup>5 </sup></b>Now Lot, who was going along with A′bram, also owned sheep and cattle and tents. <a id="chapter13_verse6"></a><b><sup>6 </sup></b>So the land did not allow for them to dwell all together, because their goods had become many and they were not able to dwell all together. <a id="chapter13_verse7"></a><b><sup>7 </sup></b>And a quarrel arose between the herders of A′bram’s livestock and the herders of Lot’s livestock; and at that time the Ca′naan·ite and the Per′iz·zite were dwelling in the land. <a id="chapter13_verse8"></a><b><sup>8 </sup></b>Hence A′bram said to Lot: “Please, do not let any quarreling continue between me and you and between my herdsmen and your herdsmen, for we men are brothers. <a id="chapter13_verse9"></a><b><sup>9 </sup></b>Is not the whole land available to you? Please, separate from me. If you go to the left, then I will go to the right; but if you go to the right, then I will go to the left.” <a id="chapter13_verse10"></a><b><sup>10 </sup></b>So Lot raised his eyes and saw the whole District of the Jordan, that all of it was a well-watered region before Jehovah brought Sod′om and Go·mor′rah to ruin, like the garden of Jehovah, like the land of Egypt as far as Zo′ar. <a id="chapter13_verse11"></a><b><sup>11 </sup></b>Then Lot chose for himself the whole District of the Jordan, and Lot moved his camp to the east. So they separated the one from the other. <a id="chapter13_verse12"></a><b><sup>12 </sup></b>A′bram dwelt in the land of Ca′naan, but Lot dwelt among the cities of the District. Finally he pitched tent near Sod′om. <a id="chapter13_verse13"></a><b><sup>13 </sup></b>And the men of Sod′om were bad and were gross sinners against Jehovah.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter13_verse14"></a><b><sup>14 </sup></b>And Jehovah said to A′bram after Lot had separated from him: “Raise your eyes, please, and look from the place where you are, northward and southward and eastward and westward, <a id="chapter13_verse15"></a><b><sup>15 </sup></b>because all the land at which you are looking, to you and to your seed I am going to give it until time indefinite. <a id="chapter13_verse16"></a><b><sup>16 </sup></b>And I will constitute your seed like the dust particles of the earth, so that, if a man could be able to count the dust particles of the earth, then your seed could be numbered. <a id="chapter13_verse17"></a><b><sup>17 </sup></b>Get up, go about in the land through its length and through its breadth, because to you I am going to give it.” <a id="chapter13_verse18"></a><b><sup>18 </sup></b>So A′bram continued to live in tents. Later on he came and dwelt among the big trees of Mam′re, which are in He′bron; and there he proceeded to build an altar to Jehovah.</p>
</body>
</html>
