<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="application/xhtml+xml; charset=utf-8" />
<title>Genesis 10</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/bi12.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
<p class="w_biblebookname">Genesis</p><p class="sb"><a id="chapter10"></a><a id="chapter10_verse1"></a><span class="w_ch"><b>10 </b></span>And this is the history of Noah’s sons, Shem, Ham and Ja′pheth.</p>
<p class="sb">Now sons began to be born to them after the deluge. <a id="chapter10_verse2"></a><b><sup>2 </sup></b>The sons of Ja′pheth were Go′mer and Ma′gog and Ma′da·i and Ja′van and Tu′bal and Me′shech and Ti′ras.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter10_verse3"></a><b><sup>3 </sup></b>And the sons of Go′mer were Ash′ke·naz and Ri′phath and To·gar′mah.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter10_verse4"></a><b><sup>4 </sup></b>And the sons of Ja′van were E·li′shah and Tar′shish, Kit′tim and Do′da·nim.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter10_verse5"></a><b><sup>5 </sup></b>From these the population of the isles of the nations was spread about in their lands, each according to its tongue, according to their families, by their nations.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter10_verse6"></a><b><sup>6 </sup></b>And the sons of Ham were Cush and Miz′ra·im and Put and Ca′naan.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter10_verse7"></a><b><sup>7 </sup></b>And the sons of Cush were Se′ba and Hav′i·lah and Sab′tah and Ra′a·mah and Sab′te·ca.</p>
<p class="sb">And the sons of Ra′a·mah were She′ba and De′dan.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter10_verse8"></a><b><sup>8 </sup></b>And Cush became father to Nim′rod. He made the start in becoming a mighty one in the earth. <a id="chapter10_verse9"></a><b><sup>9 </sup></b>He displayed himself a mighty hunter in opposition to Jehovah. That is why there is a saying: “Just like Nim′rod a mighty hunter in opposition to Jehovah.” <a id="chapter10_verse10"></a><b><sup>10 </sup></b>And the beginning of his kingdom came to be Ba′bel and E′rech and Ac′cad and Cal′neh, in the land of Shi′nar. <a id="chapter10_verse11"></a><b><sup>11 </sup></b>Out of that land he went forth into As·syr′i·a and set himself to building Nin′e·veh <a id="page18"></a>and Re·ho′both-Ir and Ca′lah <a id="chapter10_verse12"></a><b><sup>12 </sup></b>and Re′sen between Nin′e·veh and Ca′lah: this is the great city.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter10_verse13"></a><b><sup>13 </sup></b>And Miz′ra·im became father to Lu′dim and An′a·mim and Le·ha′bim and Naph·tu′him <a id="chapter10_verse14"></a><b><sup>14 </sup></b>and Path·ru′sim and Cas·lu′him (from among whom the Phi·lis′tines went forth) and Caph′to·rim.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter10_verse15"></a><b><sup>15 </sup></b>And Ca′naan became father to Si′don his firstborn and Heth <a id="chapter10_verse16"></a><b><sup>16 </sup></b>and the Jeb′u·site and the Am′or·ite and the Gir′ga·shite <a id="chapter10_verse17"></a><b><sup>17 </sup></b>and the Hi′vite and the Ark′ite and the Si′nite <a id="chapter10_verse18"></a><b><sup>18 </sup></b>and the Ar′vad·ite and the Zem′a·rite and the Ha′math·ite; and afterward the families of the Ca′naan·ite were scattered. <a id="chapter10_verse19"></a><b><sup>19 </sup></b>So the boundary of the Ca′naan·ite came to be from Si′don as far as Ge′rar, near Ga′za, as far as Sod′om and Go·mor′rah and Ad′mah and Ze·boi′im, near La′sha. <a id="chapter10_verse20"></a><b><sup>20 </sup></b>These were the sons of Ham according to their families, according to their tongues, in their lands, by their nations.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter10_verse21"></a><b><sup>21 </sup></b>And to Shem, the forefather of all the sons of E′ber, the brother of Ja′pheth the oldest, there was also progeny born. <a id="chapter10_verse22"></a><b><sup>22 </sup></b>The sons of Shem were E′lam and As′shur and Ar·pach′shad and Lud and A′ram.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter10_verse23"></a><b><sup>23 </sup></b>And the sons of A′ram were Uz and Hul and Ge′ther and Mash.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter10_verse24"></a><b><sup>24 </sup></b>And Ar·pach′shad became father to She′lah, and She′lah became father to E′ber.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter10_verse25"></a><b><sup>25 </sup></b>And to E′ber there were two sons born. The name of the one was Pe′leg, because in his days the earth was divided; and the name of his brother was Jok′tan.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter10_verse26"></a><b><sup>26 </sup></b>And Jok′tan became father to Al·mo′dad and She′leph and Ha·zar·ma′veth and Je′rah <a id="chapter10_verse27"></a><b><sup>27 </sup></b>and Ha·do′ram and U′zal and Dik′lah <a id="chapter10_verse28"></a><b><sup>28 </sup></b>and O′bal and A·bim′a·el and She′ba <a id="chapter10_verse29"></a><b><sup>29 </sup></b>and O′phir and Hav′i·lah and Jo′bab; all these were the sons of Jok′tan.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter10_verse30"></a><b><sup>30 </sup></b>And their place of dwelling came to extend from Me′sha as far as Se′phar, the mountainous region of the East.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter10_verse31"></a><b><sup>31 </sup></b>These were the sons of Shem according to their families, according to their tongues, in their lands, according to their nations.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter10_verse32"></a><b><sup>32 </sup></b>These were the families of the sons of Noah according to their family descents, by their nations, and from these the nations were spread about in the earth after the deluge.</p>
</body>
</html>
