<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="application/xhtml+xml; charset=utf-8" />
<title>Genesis 16</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/bi12.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
<p class="w_biblebookname">Genesis</p><p class="sb"><a id="chapter16"></a><a id="chapter16_verse1"></a><span class="w_ch"><b>16 </b></span>Now Sar′ai, A′bram’s wife, had borne him no children; but she had an Egyptian maidservant and her name was Ha′gar. <a id="chapter16_verse2"></a><b><sup>2 </sup></b>Hence Sar′ai said to A′bram: “Please now! Jehovah has shut me off from bearing children. Please, have relations with my maidservant. Perhaps I may get children from her.” So A′bram listened to the voice of Sar′ai. <a id="chapter16_verse3"></a><b><sup>3 </sup></b>Then Sar′ai, A′bram’s wife, took Ha′gar, her Egyptian maidservant, at the end of ten years of A′bram’s dwelling in the land of Ca′naan, and gave her to A′bram her husband as his wife. <a id="chapter16_verse4"></a><b><sup>4 </sup></b>Accordingly he had relations with Ha′gar, and she became pregnant. When she became aware that she was pregnant, then her mistress began to be despised in her eyes.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter16_verse5"></a><b><sup>5 </sup></b>At this Sar′ai said to A′bram: “The violence done me be upon you. I myself gave my maidservant over to your bosom, and she became aware that she was pregnant, and I began to be despised in her eyes. May Jehovah judge between me and you.” <a id="page24"></a><a id="chapter16_verse6"></a><b><sup>6 </sup></b>So A′bram said to Sar′ai: “Look! Your maidservant is at your disposal. Do to her what is good in your eyes.” Then Sar′ai began to humiliate her so that she ran away from her.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter16_verse7"></a><b><sup>7 </sup></b>Later Jehovah’s angel found her at a fountain of waters in the wilderness, at the fountain on the way to Shur. <a id="chapter16_verse8"></a><b><sup>8 </sup></b>And he began to say: “Ha′gar, maidservant of Sar′ai, just where have you come from and where are you going?” To this she said: “Why, from Sar′ai my mistress I am running away.” <a id="chapter16_verse9"></a><b><sup>9 </sup></b>And Jehovah’s angel went on to say to her: “Return to your mistress and humble yourself under her hand.” <a id="chapter16_verse10"></a><b><sup>10 </sup></b>Then Jehovah’s angel said to her: “I shall greatly multiply your seed, so that it will not be numbered for multitude.” <a id="chapter16_verse11"></a><b><sup>11 </sup></b>Further Jehovah’s angel added to her: “Here you are pregnant, and you shall give birth to a son and must call his name Ish′ma·el; for Jehovah has heard your affliction. <a id="chapter16_verse12"></a><b><sup>12 </sup></b>As for him, he will become a zebra of a man. His hand will be against everyone, and the hand of everyone will be against him; and before the face of all his brothers he will tabernacle.”</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter16_verse13"></a><b><sup>13 </sup></b>Then she began to call the name of Jehovah, who was speaking to her: “You are a God of sight,” for she said: “Have I here actually looked upon him who sees me?” <a id="chapter16_verse14"></a><b><sup>14 </sup></b>That is why the well was called Be′er-la′hai-roi. Here it is between Ka′desh and Be′red. <a id="chapter16_verse15"></a><b><sup>15 </sup></b>Later on Ha′gar bore to A′bram a son and A′bram called the name of his son whom Ha′gar bore Ish′ma·el. <a id="chapter16_verse16"></a><b><sup>16 </sup></b>And A′bram was eighty-six years old at Ha′gar’s bearing Ish′ma·el to A′bram.</p>
</body>
</html>
