<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="application/xhtml+xml; charset=utf-8" />
<title>Genesis 23</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/bi12.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
<p class="w_biblebookname">Genesis</p><p class="sb"><a id="chapter23"></a><a id="chapter23_verse1"></a><span class="w_ch"><b>23 </b></span>And Sarah’s life got to be a hundred and twenty-seven years long. They were the years of Sarah’s life. <a id="chapter23_verse2"></a><b><sup>2 </sup></b>So Sarah died in Kir′i·ath-ar′ba, that is to say, He′bron, in the land of Ca′naan, and Abraham came in to bewail Sarah and to weep over her. <a id="chapter23_verse3"></a><b><sup>3 </sup></b>Then Abraham got up from before his dead and proceeded to speak to the sons of Heth, saying: <a id="chapter23_verse4"></a><b><sup>4 </sup></b>“An alien resident and settler I am among <span class="smcap">YOU</span>. Give me the possession of a burial place among <span class="smcap">YOU </span>that I may bury my dead out of my sight.” <a id="chapter23_verse5"></a><b><sup>5 </sup></b>At this the sons of Heth answered Abraham, saying to him: <a id="chapter23_verse6"></a><b><sup>6 </sup></b>“Hear us, my lord. A chieftain of God you are in the midst of us. In the choicest of our burial places bury your dead. None of us will hold back his burial place from you to prevent burying your dead.”</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter23_verse7"></a><b><sup>7 </sup></b>Thereupon Abraham got up and bowed down to the natives, to the sons of Heth, <a id="chapter23_verse8"></a><b><sup>8 </sup></b>and spoke with them, saying: “If <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>souls agree to bury my dead out of my sight, listen to me and urge E′phron the son of Zo′har for me, <a id="chapter23_verse9"></a><b><sup>9 </sup></b>that he may give me the cave of Mach·pe′lah, which is his, which is at the extremity of his field. For the full amount of silver let him give it to me in the midst of <span class="smcap">YOU </span>for the possession of a burial place.”</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter23_verse10"></a><b><sup>10 </sup></b>As it was, E′phron was sitting among the sons of Heth. So E′phron the Hit′tite answered Abraham in the hearing of the <a id="page33"></a>sons of Heth with all those entering the gate of his city, saying: <a id="chapter23_verse11"></a><b><sup>11 </sup></b>“No, my lord! Listen to me. The field I do give to you, and the cave that is in it to you I do give it. Before the eyes of the sons of my people I do give it to you. Bury your dead.” <a id="chapter23_verse12"></a><b><sup>12 </sup></b>At that Abraham bowed down before the natives <a id="chapter23_verse13"></a><b><sup>13 </sup></b>and spoke to E′phron in the hearing of the natives, saying: “Only if you—no, listen to me! I will give you the amount of silver for the field. Take it from me, that I may bury my dead there.”</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter23_verse14"></a><b><sup>14 </sup></b>Then E′phron answered Abraham, saying to him: <a id="chapter23_verse15"></a><b><sup>15 </sup></b>“My lord, listen to me. A land plot worth four hundred silver shekels, what is that between me and you? So bury your dead.” <a id="chapter23_verse16"></a><b><sup>16 </sup></b>Accordingly Abraham listened to E′phron, and Abraham weighed out to E′phron the amount of silver that he had spoken in the hearing of the sons of Heth, four hundred silver shekels current with the merchants. <a id="chapter23_verse17"></a><b><sup>17 </sup></b>Thus the field of E′phron that was in Mach·pe′lah, which is in front of Mam′re, the field and the cave that was in it and all the trees that were in the field, which were within all its boundaries round about, became confirmed <a id="chapter23_verse18"></a><b><sup>18 </sup></b>to Abraham as his purchased property before the eyes of the sons of Heth among all those entering the gate of his city. <a id="chapter23_verse19"></a><b><sup>19 </sup></b>And after that Abraham buried Sarah his wife in the cave of the field of Mach·pe′lah in front of Mam′re, that is to say, He′bron, in the land of Ca′naan. <a id="chapter23_verse20"></a><b><sup>20 </sup></b>Thus the field and the cave that was in it became confirmed to Abraham for the possession of a burial place at the hands of the sons of Heth.</p>
</body>
</html>
