<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="application/xhtml+xml; charset=utf-8" />
<title>Genesis 47</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/bi12.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
<p class="w_biblebookname">Genesis</p><p class="sb"><a id="chapter47"></a><a id="chapter47_verse1"></a><span class="w_ch"><b>47 </b></span>Accordingly Joseph came and reported to Phar′aoh and said: “My father and my brothers and their flocks and their herds and all they have have come from the land of Ca′naan, and here they are in the land of Go′shen.” <a id="chapter47_verse2"></a><b><sup>2 </sup></b>And from the whole number of his brothers he took five men, that he might present them to Phar′aoh.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter47_verse3"></a><b><sup>3 </sup></b>Then Phar′aoh said to his brothers: “What is <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>occupation?” So they said to Phar′aoh: “Your servants are herders of sheep, both we and our forefathers.” <a id="chapter47_verse4"></a><b><sup>4 </sup></b>After that they said to Phar′aoh: “We have come to reside as aliens in the land, because there is no pasturage for the flock that your servants have, for the famine is severe in the land of Ca′naan. And now let your servants dwell, please, in the land of Go′shen.” <a id="chapter47_verse5"></a><b><sup>5 </sup></b>At that Phar′aoh said to Joseph: “Your father and your brothers have come here to you. <a id="chapter47_verse6"></a><b><sup>6 </sup></b>The land of Egypt is at your disposal. Have your father and your brothers dwell in the very best of the land. Let them dwell in the land of Go′shen, and if you know that there are among them courageous men, you must appoint them cattle chiefs over what is mine.”</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter47_verse7"></a><b><sup>7 </sup></b>Then Joseph brought in Jacob his father and introduced him to Phar′aoh, and Jacob proceeded to bless Phar′aoh. <a id="chapter47_verse8"></a><b><sup>8 </sup></b>Phar′aoh now said to Jacob: “How many are the days of the years of your life?” <a id="chapter47_verse9"></a><b><sup>9 </sup></b>So Jacob said to Phar′aoh: “The days of the years of my alien residences are a hundred and thirty years. Few and distressing the days of the years of my life have proved, and they have not reached the days of the years of the lives of my fathers in the days of their alien residences.” <a id="chapter47_verse10"></a><b><sup>10 </sup></b>After that Jacob blessed Phar′aoh and went out from before Phar′aoh.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter47_verse11"></a><b><sup>11 </sup></b>Thus Joseph had his father and his brothers dwell and he gave them a possession in the land of Egypt, in the very best of the land, in the land of Ram′e·ses, just as Phar′aoh had commanded. <a id="chapter47_verse12"></a><b><sup>12 </sup></b>And Joseph kept supplying his father and his brothers and the entire household of his father with bread, according to the number of the little ones.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter47_verse13"></a><b><sup>13 </sup></b>Now there was no bread in all the land, because the famine was very severe; and the land of Egypt and the land of Ca′naan became exhausted as a result of the famine. <a id="chapter47_verse14"></a><b><sup>14 </sup></b>And Joseph went on picking up all the money that was to be found in <a id="page72"></a>the land of Egypt and in the land of Ca′naan for the cereals which people were buying; and Joseph kept bringing the money into Phar′aoh’s house. <a id="chapter47_verse15"></a><b><sup>15 </sup></b>In time the money from the land of Egypt and the land of Ca′naan was spent, and all the Egyptians began coming to Joseph, saying: “Give us bread! And why should we die in front of you because money has run out?” <a id="chapter47_verse16"></a><b><sup>16 </sup></b>Then Joseph said: “Hand over <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>livestock and I shall give <span class="smcap">YOU </span>bread in exchange for <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>livestock, if money has run out.” <a id="chapter47_verse17"></a><b><sup>17 </sup></b>And they began bringing their livestock to Joseph; and Joseph kept giving them bread in exchange for their horses and the livestock of the flock and the livestock of the herd and the asses, and he kept providing them with bread in exchange for all their livestock during that year.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter47_verse18"></a><b><sup>18 </sup></b>Gradually that year came to its close, and they began coming to him in the next year and saying to him: “We shall not hide it from my lord but the money and the stock of domestic animals have been spent to my lord. There remains nothing before my lord but our bodies and our land. <a id="chapter47_verse19"></a><b><sup>19 </sup></b>Why should we die before your eyes, both we and our land? Buy us and our land for bread, and we together with our land will become slaves to Phar′aoh; and give us seed that we may live and not die and our land not be laid desolate.” <a id="chapter47_verse20"></a><b><sup>20 </sup></b>So Joseph bought all the land of the Egyptians for Phar′aoh, because the Egyptians sold each one his field, for the famine had got a strong grip on them; and the land came to be Phar′aoh’s.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter47_verse21"></a><b><sup>21 </sup></b>As for the people, he removed them into cities from one end of the territory of Egypt to its other end. <a id="chapter47_verse22"></a><b><sup>22 </sup></b>Only the land of the priests he did not buy, because the rations for the priests were from Phar′aoh and they ate their rations that Phar′aoh gave them. That is why they did not sell their land. <a id="chapter47_verse23"></a><b><sup>23 </sup></b>Then Joseph said to the people: “See, I have today bought <span class="smcap">YOU </span>and <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>land for Phar′aoh. Here is seed for <span class="smcap">YOU</span>, and <span class="smcap">YOU </span>must sow the land with it. <a id="chapter47_verse24"></a><b><sup>24 </sup></b>When it has resulted in produce, then <span class="smcap">YOU </span>must give a fifth to Phar′aoh, but four parts will become <span class="smcap">YOURS </span>as seed for the field and as food for <span class="smcap">YOU </span>and for those who are in <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>houses and for <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>little ones to eat.” <a id="chapter47_verse25"></a><b><sup>25 </sup></b>Consequently they said: “You have preserved our lives. Let us find favor in the eyes of my lord, and we will become slaves to Phar′aoh.” <a id="chapter47_verse26"></a><b><sup>26 </sup></b>And Joseph proceeded to make it a decree down to this day over the landed estate of Egypt for Phar′aoh to have to the amount of a fifth. Only the land of the priests as a distinct group did not become Phar′aoh’s.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter47_verse27"></a><b><sup>27 </sup></b>And Israel continued to dwell in the land of Egypt, in the land of Go′shen; and they became settled in it and were fruitful and grew to be very many. <a id="chapter47_verse28"></a><b><sup>28 </sup></b>And Jacob lived on in the land of Egypt for seventeen years, so that Jacob’s days, the years of his life, came to be a hundred and forty-seven years.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter47_verse29"></a><b><sup>29 </sup></b>Gradually the days approached for Israel to die. So he called his son Joseph and said to him: “If, now, I have found favor in your eyes, place your hand, please, under my thigh, and you must exercise loving-kindness and trustworthiness toward me. (Please, do not bury me in Egypt.) <a id="chapter47_verse30"></a><b><sup>30 </sup></b>And I must lie with my fathers, and you must carry me out of Egypt and bury me in their grave.” Accordingly he said: “I myself shall do in keeping with your word.” <a id="chapter47_verse31"></a><b><sup>31 </sup></b>Then he said: “Swear to me.” So he swore to him. At that Israel prostrated himself over the head of the couch.</p>
</body>
</html>
