<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="application/xhtml+xml; charset=utf-8" />
<title>Exodus 6</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/bi12.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
<p class="w_biblebookname">Exodus</p><p class="sb"><a id="chapter6"></a><a id="chapter6_verse1"></a><span class="w_ch"><b>6 </b></span>So Jehovah said to Moses: “Now you will see what I shall do to Phar′aoh, because on account of a strong hand he will send them away and on account of a strong hand he will drive them out of his land.”</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter6_verse2"></a><b><sup>2 </sup></b>And God went on to speak to Moses and to say to him: “I am Jehovah. <a id="chapter6_verse3"></a><b><sup>3 </sup></b>And I used to appear to Abraham, Isaac and Jacob as God Almighty, but as respects my name Jehovah I did not make myself known to them. <a id="chapter6_verse4"></a><b><sup>4 </sup></b>And I also established my covenant with them to give them the land of Ca′naan, the land of their alien residences in which they resided as aliens. <a id="chapter6_verse5"></a><b><sup>5 </sup></b>And I, even I, have heard the groaning of the sons of Israel, whom the Egyptians are enslaving, and I remember my covenant.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter6_verse6"></a><b><sup>6 </sup></b>“Therefore say to the sons of Israel, ‘I am Jehovah, and I shall certainly bring <span class="smcap">YOU </span>out from under the burdens of the Egyptians and deliver <span class="smcap">YOU </span>from their slavery, and I shall indeed reclaim <span class="smcap">YOU </span>with an outstretched arm and with great judgments. <a id="chapter6_verse7"></a><b><sup>7 </sup></b>And I shall certainly take <span class="smcap">YOU </span>to me as a people, and I shall indeed prove to be God to <span class="smcap">YOU</span>; and <span class="smcap">YOU </span>will certainly know that I am Jehovah <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>God who is bringing <span class="smcap">YOU </span>out from under the burdens of Egypt. <a id="chapter6_verse8"></a><b><sup>8 </sup></b>And I shall certainly bring <span class="smcap">YOU </span>into the land that I raised my hand in oath to give to Abraham, Isaac and Jacob; and I shall indeed give it to <span class="smcap">YOU </span>as something to possess. I am Jehovah.’”</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter6_verse9"></a><b><sup>9 </sup></b>Afterward Moses spoke to this effect to the sons of Israel, but they did not listen to Moses out of discouragement and for the hard slavery.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter6_verse10"></a><b><sup>10 </sup></b>Then Jehovah spoke to Moses, saying: <a id="chapter6_verse11"></a><b><sup>11 </sup></b>“Go in, speak to Phar′aoh, Egypt’s king, that he should send the sons of Israel away out of his land.” <a id="chapter6_verse12"></a><b><sup>12 </sup></b>However, Moses spoke before Jehovah, saying: “Look! The sons of Israel have not listened to me; and how will Phar′aoh ever listen to me, as I am uncircumcised in lips?” <a id="chapter6_verse13"></a><b><sup>13 </sup></b>But Jehovah continued to speak to Moses and Aaron and to issue the command by them to the sons of Israel and to Phar′aoh, Egypt’s king, in order to bring the sons of Israel out from the land of Egypt.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter6_verse14"></a><b><sup>14 </sup></b>These are the heads of the house of their fathers: The sons of Reu′ben, Israel’s firstborn, were Ha′noch and Pal′lu, Hez′ron and Car′mi. These are the families of Reu′ben.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter6_verse15"></a><b><sup>15 </sup></b>And the sons of Sim′e·on were Jem·u′el and Ja′min and O′had and Ja′chin and Zo′har and Sha′ul the son of a Ca′naan·ite woman. These are the families of Sim′e·on.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter6_verse16"></a><b><sup>16 </sup></b>And these are the names of the sons of Le′vi, according to their family descents: Ger′shon and Ko′hath and Me·rar′i. And the years of Le′vi’s life were a hundred and thirty-seven years.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter6_verse17"></a><b><sup>17 </sup></b>The sons of Ger′shon were Lib′ni and Shim′e·i, according to their families.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter6_verse18"></a><b><sup>18 </sup></b>And the sons of Ko′hath were Am′ram and Iz′har <a id="page84"></a>and He′bron and Uz′zi·el. And the years of Ko′hath’s life were a hundred and thirty-three years.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter6_verse19"></a><b><sup>19 </sup></b>And the sons of Me·rar′i were Mah′li and Mu′shi.</p>
<p class="sb">These were the families of the Levites, according to their family descents.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter6_verse20"></a><b><sup>20 </sup></b>Now Am′ram took Joch′e·bed his father’s sister as his wife. Later she bore him Aaron and Moses. And the years of Am′ram’s life were a hundred and thirty-seven years.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter6_verse21"></a><b><sup>21 </sup></b>And the sons of Iz′har were Ko′rah and Ne′pheg and Zich′ri.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter6_verse22"></a><b><sup>22 </sup></b>And the sons of Uz′zi·el were Mish′a·el and El·za′phan and Sith′ri.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter6_verse23"></a><b><sup>23 </sup></b>Now Aaron took E·li′she·ba, Am·min′a·dab’s daughter, the sister of Nah′shon, as his wife. Later she bore him Na′dab and A·bi′hu, El·e·a′zar and Ith′a·mar.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter6_verse24"></a><b><sup>24 </sup></b>And the sons of Ko′rah were As′sir and El·ka′nah and A·bi′a·saph. These were the families of the Ko′rah·ites.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter6_verse25"></a><b><sup>25 </sup></b>And El·e·a′zar, Aaron’s son, took for himself one of the daughters of Pu′ti·el as his wife. Later she bore him Phin′e·has.</p>
<p class="sb">These are the heads of the fathers of the Levites, according to their families.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter6_verse26"></a><b><sup>26 </sup></b>This is the Aaron and Moses to whom Jehovah said: “B<span class="smcap">RING </span>the sons of Israel out from the land of Egypt according to their armies.” <a id="chapter6_verse27"></a><b><sup>27 </sup></b>They were the ones speaking to Phar′aoh, Egypt’s king, to bring the sons of Israel out from Egypt. This is the Moses and Aaron.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter6_verse28"></a><b><sup>28 </sup></b>And it came about on the day that Jehovah spoke to Moses in the land of Egypt, <a id="chapter6_verse29"></a><b><sup>29 </sup></b>that Jehovah went on to speak to Moses, saying: “I am Jehovah. Speak to Phar′aoh king of Egypt everything I am speaking to you.” <a id="chapter6_verse30"></a><b><sup>30 </sup></b>Then Moses said before Jehovah: “Look! I am uncircumcised in lips, so how will Phar′aoh ever listen to me?”</p>
</body>
</html>
