<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="application/xhtml+xml; charset=utf-8" />
<title>Exodus 16</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/bi12.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
<p class="w_biblebookname">Exodus</p><p class="sb"><a id="chapter16"></a><a id="chapter16_verse1"></a><span class="w_ch"><b>16 </b></span>Later they departed from E′lim, and the entire assembly of the sons of Israel finally came to the wilderness of Sin, which is between E′lim and Si′nai, on the fifteenth day of the second month after their coming out of the land of Egypt.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter16_verse2"></a><b><sup>2 </sup></b>And the entire assembly of the sons of Israel began to murmur against Moses and Aaron in the wilderness. <a id="chapter16_verse3"></a><b><sup>3 </sup></b>And the sons of Israel kept saying to them: “If only we had died by Jehovah’s hand in the land of Egypt while we were sitting by the pots of meat, while we were eating bread to satisfaction, because <span class="smcap">YOU </span>have brought us out into this wilderness to put this whole congregation to death by famine.”</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter16_verse4"></a><b><sup>4 </sup></b>Then Jehovah said to Moses: “Here I am raining down bread for <span class="smcap">YOU </span>from the heavens; and the people must go out and pick up each his amount day for day, in order that I may put them to the test as to whether they will walk in my law or not. <a id="chapter16_verse5"></a><b><sup>5 </sup></b>And it must occur on the sixth day that they must prepare what they will bring in, and it must prove double what they keep picking up day by day.”</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter16_verse6"></a><b><sup>6 </sup></b>So Moses and Aaron said to all the sons of Israel: “At evening <span class="smcap">YOU </span>will certainly know that it is Jehovah who has brought <span class="smcap">YOU </span>out from the land of Egypt. <a id="chapter16_verse7"></a><b><sup>7 </sup></b>And in the morning <span class="smcap">YOU </span>will indeed see Jehovah’s glory, because he has heard <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>murmurings against Jehovah. And what are we that <span class="smcap">YOU </span>should murmur against us?” <a id="chapter16_verse8"></a><b><sup>8 </sup></b>And Moses continued: “It will be when Jehovah gives <span class="smcap">YOU </span>in the evening meat to eat and in the morning bread to satisfaction, because Jehovah has heard <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>murmurings that <span class="smcap">YOU </span>are murmuring against him. And what are we? Y<span class="smcap">OUR </span>murmurings are not against us, but against Jehovah.”</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter16_verse9"></a><b><sup>9 </sup></b>And Moses went on to say to Aaron: “Say to the entire assembly of the sons of Israel, ‘Come near before Jehovah, because he has heard <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>murmurings.’” <a id="chapter16_verse10"></a><b><sup>10 </sup></b>Then it occurred that as soon as Aaron had spoken to the entire assembly of the sons of Israel, they turned and faced toward the wilderness, and, look! Jehovah’s glory appeared in the cloud.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter16_verse11"></a><b><sup>11 </sup></b>And Jehovah spoke further to Moses, saying: <a id="chapter16_verse12"></a><b><sup>12 </sup></b>“I have heard the murmurings of the sons of Israel. Speak to them, saying, ‘Between the two evenings <span class="smcap">YOU </span>will eat meat and in the morning <span class="smcap">YOU </span>will be satisfied with bread; and <span class="smcap">YOU </span>will certainly know that I am Jehovah <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>God.’”</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter16_verse13"></a><b><sup>13 </sup></b>Accordingly it occurred that in the evening the quails began to come up and cover the <a id="page99"></a>camp, and in the morning there had developed a layer of dew round about the camp. <a id="chapter16_verse14"></a><b><sup>14 </sup></b>In time the layer of dew evaporated and here upon the surface of the wilderness there was a fine flaky thing, fine like hoarfrost upon the earth. <a id="chapter16_verse15"></a><b><sup>15 </sup></b>When the sons of Israel got to see it, they began to say to one another: “What is it?” For they did not know what it was. Hence Moses said to them: “It is the bread that Jehovah has given <span class="smcap">YOU </span>for food. <a id="chapter16_verse16"></a><b><sup>16 </sup></b>This is the word that Jehovah has commanded, ‘Pick up some of it, each one in proportion to his eating. Y<span class="smcap">OU </span>are to take an omer measure for each individual according to the number of the souls that each of <span class="smcap">YOU </span>has in his tent.’” <a id="chapter16_verse17"></a><b><sup>17 </sup></b>And the sons of Israel began to do so; and they went picking it up, some gathering much and some gathering little. <a id="chapter16_verse18"></a><b><sup>18 </sup></b>When they would measure it by the omer, he that had gathered much had no surplus and he that had gathered little had no shortage. They picked it up each one in proportion to his eating.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter16_verse19"></a><b><sup>19 </sup></b>Then Moses said to them: “Let nobody leave any of it until the morning.” <a id="chapter16_verse20"></a><b><sup>20 </sup></b>But they did not listen to Moses. When some men would leave some of it until the morning, it would breed worms and stink; so that Moses became indignant at them. <a id="chapter16_verse21"></a><b><sup>21 </sup></b>And they would pick it up morning by morning, each one in proportion to his eating. When the sun got hot, it melted.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter16_verse22"></a><b><sup>22 </sup></b>And it came about on the sixth day that they picked up twice as much bread, two omer measures for one person. So all the chieftains of the assembly came and reported it to Moses. <a id="chapter16_verse23"></a><b><sup>23 </sup></b>At that he said to them: “It is what Jehovah has spoken. Tomorrow there will be a sabbath observance of a holy sabbath to Jehovah. What <span class="smcap">YOU </span>can bake, bake, and what <span class="smcap">YOU </span>can boil, boil, and all the surplus that there is save it up for <span class="smcap">YOU </span>as something to be kept until the morning.” <a id="chapter16_verse24"></a><b><sup>24 </sup></b>Accordingly they saved it up until the morning, just as Moses had commanded; and it did not stink nor did maggots develop in it. <a id="chapter16_verse25"></a><b><sup>25 </sup></b>Then Moses said: “Eat it today, because today is a sabbath to Jehovah. Today <span class="smcap">YOU </span>will not find it in the field. <a id="chapter16_verse26"></a><b><sup>26 </sup></b>Six days <span class="smcap">YOU </span>will pick it up, but on the seventh day is a sabbath. On it none will form.” <a id="chapter16_verse27"></a><b><sup>27 </sup></b>However, it came about on the seventh day that some of the people did go out to pick it up, but they found none.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter16_verse28"></a><b><sup>28 </sup></b>Consequently Jehovah said to Moses: “How long must <span class="smcap">YOU </span>people refuse to keep my commandments and my laws? <a id="chapter16_verse29"></a><b><sup>29 </sup></b>Mark the fact that Jehovah has given <span class="smcap">YOU </span>the sabbath. That is why he is giving <span class="smcap">YOU </span>on the sixth day the bread of two days. Keep sitting each one in his own place. Let nobody go out from his locality on the seventh day.” <a id="chapter16_verse30"></a><b><sup>30 </sup></b>And the people proceeded to observe the sabbath on the seventh day.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter16_verse31"></a><b><sup>31 </sup></b>And the house of Israel began to call its name “manna.” And it was white like coriander seed, and its taste was like that of flat cakes with honey. <a id="chapter16_verse32"></a><b><sup>32 </sup></b>Then Moses said: “This is the word that Jehovah has commanded, ‘Fill an omer measure of it as something to be kept throughout <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>generations, in order that they may see the bread that I made <span class="smcap">YOU </span>eat in the wilderness when I was bringing <span class="smcap">YOU </span>out of the land of Egypt.’” <a id="chapter16_verse33"></a><b><sup>33 </sup></b>So Moses said to Aaron: “Take a jar and put in it an omerful of manna and deposit it before Jehovah as something to be kept throughout <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>generations.” <a id="chapter16_verse34"></a><b><sup>34 </sup></b>Just as Jehovah had commanded Moses, Aaron proceeded to deposit <a id="page100"></a>it before the Testimony as something to be kept. <a id="chapter16_verse35"></a><b><sup>35 </sup></b>And the sons of Israel ate the manna forty years, until their coming to a land inhabited. The manna was what they ate until their coming to the frontier of the land of Ca′naan. <a id="chapter16_verse36"></a><b><sup>36 </sup></b>Now an omer is a tenth of an e′phah measure.</p>
</body>
</html>
