<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="application/xhtml+xml; charset=utf-8" />
<title>Leviticus 26</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/bi12.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
<p class="w_biblebookname">Leviticus</p><p class="sb"><a id="chapter26"></a><a id="chapter26_verse1"></a><span class="w_ch"><b>26 </b></span>“‘Y<span class="smcap">OU </span>must not make valueless gods for yourselves, and <span class="smcap">YOU </span>must not set up a carved image or a sacred pillar for yourselves, and <span class="smcap">YOU </span>must not put a stone as a showpiece in <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>land in order to bow down toward it; for I am Jehovah <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>God. <a id="chapter26_verse2"></a><b><sup>2 </sup></b>Y<span class="smcap">OU </span>should keep my sabbaths and stand in awe of my sanctuary. I am Jehovah.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter26_verse3"></a><b><sup>3 </sup></b>“‘If <span class="smcap">YOU </span>continue walking in my statutes and keeping my commandments and <span class="smcap">YOU </span>do carry them out, <a id="chapter26_verse4"></a><b><sup>4 </sup></b>I shall also certainly give <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>showers of rain at their proper time, and the land will indeed give its yield, and the tree of the field will give its fruit. <a id="chapter26_verse5"></a><b><sup>5 </sup></b>And <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>threshing will certainly reach to <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>grape gathering, and the grape gathering will reach to the sowing of seed; and <span class="smcap">YOU </span>will indeed eat <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>bread to satisfaction and dwell in security in <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>land. <a id="chapter26_verse6"></a><b><sup>6 </sup></b>And I will put peace in the land, and <span class="smcap">YOU </span>will indeed lie down, with no one making <span class="smcap">YOU </span>tremble; and I will make the injurious wild beast cease out of the land, and a sword will not pass through <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>land. <a id="chapter26_verse7"></a><b><sup>7 </sup></b>And <span class="smcap">YOU </span>will certainly chase <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>enemies, and they will indeed fall before <span class="smcap">YOU </span>by the sword. <a id="chapter26_verse8"></a><b><sup>8 </sup></b>And five of <span class="smcap">YOU </span>will certainly chase a hundred, and a hundred of <span class="smcap">YOU </span>will chase ten thousand, and <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>enemies will indeed fall before <span class="smcap">YOU </span>by the sword.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter26_verse9"></a><b><sup>9 </sup></b>“‘And I will turn myself to <span class="smcap">YOU </span>and make <span class="smcap">YOU </span>fruitful and multiply <span class="smcap">YOU</span>, and I will carry out my covenant with <span class="smcap">YOU</span>. <a id="chapter26_verse10"></a><b><sup>10 </sup></b>And <span class="smcap">YOU </span>will certainly eat the old of the preceding year, and <span class="smcap">YOU </span>will bring out the old ahead of the new. <a id="chapter26_verse11"></a><b><sup>11 </sup></b>And I shall certainly put my tabernacle in the midst of <span class="smcap">YOU</span>, and my soul will not abhor <span class="smcap">YOU</span>. <a id="chapter26_verse12"></a><b><sup>12 </sup></b>And I shall indeed walk in the midst of <span class="smcap">YOU </span>and prove myself <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>God, and <span class="smcap">YOU</span>, on <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>part, will prove yourselves <a id="page174"></a>my people. <a id="chapter26_verse13"></a><b><sup>13 </sup></b>I am Jehovah <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>God, who brought <span class="smcap">YOU </span>out of the land of Egypt from acting as slaves to them, and I proceeded to break the bars of <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>yoke and make <span class="smcap">YOU </span>walk erect.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter26_verse14"></a><b><sup>14 </sup></b>“‘However, if <span class="smcap">YOU </span>will not listen to me nor do all these commandments, <a id="chapter26_verse15"></a><b><sup>15 </sup></b>and if <span class="smcap">YOU </span>will reject my statutes, and if <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>souls will abhor my judicial decisions so as not to do all my commandments, to the extent of <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>violating my covenant, <a id="chapter26_verse16"></a><b><sup>16 </sup></b>then I, for my part, shall do the following to <span class="smcap">YOU</span>, and in punishment I shall certainly bring upon <span class="smcap">YOU </span>disturbance with tuberculosis and burning fever, causing the eyes to fail and making the soul pine away. And <span class="smcap">YOU </span>will simply sow <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>seed for nothing, as <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>enemies will certainly eat it up. <a id="chapter26_verse17"></a><b><sup>17 </sup></b>And I shall indeed set my face against <span class="smcap">YOU</span>, and <span class="smcap">YOU </span>will certainly be defeated before <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>enemies; and those who hate <span class="smcap">YOU </span>will just tread down upon <span class="smcap">YOU</span>, and <span class="smcap">YOU </span>will actually flee when no one is pursuing <span class="smcap">YOU</span>.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter26_verse18"></a><b><sup>18 </sup></b>“‘If, though, despite these things, <span class="smcap">YOU </span>will not listen to me, I shall then have to chastise <span class="smcap">YOU </span>seven times as much for <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>sins. <a id="chapter26_verse19"></a><b><sup>19 </sup></b>And I shall have to break the pride of <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>strength and make <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>heavens like iron and <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>earth like copper. <a id="chapter26_verse20"></a><b><sup>20 </sup></b>And <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>power will simply be expended for nothing, as <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>earth will not give its yield, and the tree of the earth will not give its fruit.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter26_verse21"></a><b><sup>21 </sup></b>“‘But if <span class="smcap">YOU </span>keep walking in opposition to me and not wishing to listen to me, I shall then have to inflict seven times more blows upon <span class="smcap">YOU </span>according to <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>sins. <a id="chapter26_verse22"></a><b><sup>22 </sup></b>And I will send the wild beasts of the field among <span class="smcap">YOU</span>, and they will certainly bereave <span class="smcap">YOU </span>of children and cut off <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>domestic animals and reduce the number of <span class="smcap">YOU</span>, and <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>roads will actually be desolated.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter26_verse23"></a><b><sup>23 </sup></b>“‘Nevertheless, if with these things <span class="smcap">YOU </span>do not let yourselves be corrected by me and <span class="smcap">YOU </span>just have to walk in opposition to me, <a id="chapter26_verse24"></a><b><sup>24 </sup></b>I, yes, I, shall then have to walk in opposition to <span class="smcap">YOU</span>; and I, even I, shall have to strike <span class="smcap">YOU </span>seven times for <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>sins. <a id="chapter26_verse25"></a><b><sup>25 </sup></b>And I shall certainly bring upon <span class="smcap">YOU </span>a sword wreaking vengeance for the covenant; and <span class="smcap">YOU </span>will indeed gather yourselves into <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>cities, and I shall certainly send pestilence into the midst of <span class="smcap">YOU</span>, and <span class="smcap">YOU </span>must be given into the hand of an enemy. <a id="chapter26_verse26"></a><b><sup>26 </sup></b>When I have broken for <span class="smcap">YOU </span>the rods around which ring-shaped loaves are suspended, ten women will then actually bake <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>bread in but one oven and give back <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>bread by weight; and <span class="smcap">YOU </span>must eat but <span class="smcap">YOU </span>will not be satisfied.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter26_verse27"></a><b><sup>27 </sup></b>“‘If, however, with this <span class="smcap">YOU </span>will not listen to me and <span class="smcap">YOU </span>just must walk in opposition to me, <a id="chapter26_verse28"></a><b><sup>28 </sup></b>I shall then have to walk in heated opposition to <span class="smcap">YOU</span>, and I, yes, I, shall have to chastise <span class="smcap">YOU </span>seven times for <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>sins. <a id="chapter26_verse29"></a><b><sup>29 </sup></b>So <span class="smcap">YOU </span>will have to eat the flesh of <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>sons, and <span class="smcap">YOU </span>will eat the flesh of <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>daughters. <a id="chapter26_verse30"></a><b><sup>30 </sup></b>And I shall certainly annihilate <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>sacred high places and cut off <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>incense stands and lay <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>own carcasses upon the carcasses of <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>dungy idols; and my soul will simply abhor <span class="smcap">YOU</span>. <a id="chapter26_verse31"></a><b><sup>31 </sup></b>And I shall indeed give <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>cities to the sword and lay <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>sanctuaries desolate, and I shall not smell <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>restful odors. <a id="chapter26_verse32"></a><b><sup>32 </sup></b>And I, for my part, will lay the land desolate, and <a id="page175"></a><span class="smcap">YOUR </span>enemies who are dwelling in it will simply stare in amazement over it. <a id="chapter26_verse33"></a><b><sup>33 </sup></b>And <span class="smcap">YOU </span>I shall scatter among the nations, and I will unsheathe a sword after <span class="smcap">YOU</span>; and <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>land must become a desolation, and <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>cities will become a desolate ruin.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter26_verse34"></a><b><sup>34 </sup></b>“‘At that time the land will pay off its sabbaths all the days of its lying desolated, while <span class="smcap">YOU </span>are in the land of <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>enemies. At that time the land will keep sabbath, as it must repay its sabbaths. <a id="chapter26_verse35"></a><b><sup>35 </sup></b>All the days of its lying desolated it will keep sabbath, for the reason that it did not keep sabbath during <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>sabbaths when <span class="smcap">YOU </span>were dwelling upon it.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter26_verse36"></a><b><sup>36 </sup></b>“‘As for those remaining among <span class="smcap">YOU</span>, I shall certainly bring timidity into their hearts in the lands of their enemies; and the sound of a leaf driven about will indeed chase them away, and they will actually flee as in flight from a sword and fall without anyone chasing. <a id="chapter26_verse37"></a><b><sup>37 </sup></b>And they will certainly stumble against one another as if from before a sword without anyone chasing, and for <span class="smcap">YOU </span>there will prove to be no ability to stand in resistance before <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>enemies. <a id="chapter26_verse38"></a><b><sup>38 </sup></b>And <span class="smcap">YOU </span>must perish among the nations, and the land of <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>enemies must eat <span class="smcap">YOU </span>up. <a id="chapter26_verse39"></a><b><sup>39 </sup></b>As for those remaining among <span class="smcap">YOU</span>, they will rot away because of their error in the lands of <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>enemies. Yes, even because of the errors of their fathers, with them they will rot away. <a id="chapter26_verse40"></a><b><sup>40 </sup></b>And they will certainly confess their own error and the error of their fathers in their unfaithfulness when they behaved unfaithfully toward me, yes, even when they walked in opposition to me. <a id="chapter26_verse41"></a><b><sup>41 </sup></b>Yet I, for my part, proceeded to walk in opposition to them, and I had to bring them into the land of their enemies.</p>
<p class="sb">“‘Perhaps at that time their uncircumcised heart will be humbled, and at that time they will pay off their error. <a id="chapter26_verse42"></a><b><sup>42 </sup></b>And I shall indeed remember my covenant with Jacob; and even my covenant with Isaac and even my covenant with Abraham I shall remember, and the land I shall remember. <a id="chapter26_verse43"></a><b><sup>43 </sup></b>All the while the land was left abandoned by them and was paying off its sabbaths while it was lying desolated without them and they themselves were paying for their error, because, even because, they had rejected my judicial decisions, and their souls had abhorred my statutes. <a id="chapter26_verse44"></a><b><sup>44 </sup></b>And yet for all this, while they continue in the land of their enemies, I shall certainly not reject them nor abhor them so as to exterminate them, to violate my covenant with them; for I am Jehovah their God. <a id="chapter26_verse45"></a><b><sup>45 </sup></b>And I will remember in their behalf the covenant of the ancestors whom I brought forth out of the land of Egypt under the eyes of the nations, in order to prove myself their God. I am Jehovah.’”</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter26_verse46"></a><b><sup>46 </sup></b>These are the regulations and the judicial decisions and the laws that Jehovah set between himself and the sons of Israel in Mount Si′nai by means of Moses.</p>
</body>
</html>
