<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="application/xhtml+xml; charset=utf-8" />
<title>Numbers 10</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/bi12.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
<p class="w_biblebookname">Numbers</p><p class="sb"><a id="chapter10"></a><a id="chapter10_verse1"></a><span class="w_ch"><b>10 </b></span>And Jehovah proceeded to speak to Moses, saying: <a id="chapter10_verse2"></a><b><sup>2 </sup></b>“Make for yourself two trumpets of silver. You will make them of hammered work, and they must be at your service for convening the assembly and for breaking up the camps. <a id="chapter10_verse3"></a><b><sup>3 </sup></b>And they must blow on them both, and the whole assembly must keep their appointment with you at the entrance of the tent of meeting. <a id="chapter10_verse4"></a><b><sup>4 </sup></b>And if they should blow on just one, the chieftains as heads of the thousands of Israel must also keep their appointment with you.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter10_verse5"></a><b><sup>5 </sup></b>“And <span class="smcap">YOU </span>men must blow a fluctuating blast, and the camps of those camping to the east must pull away. <a id="chapter10_verse6"></a><b><sup>6 </sup></b>And <span class="smcap">YOU </span>must blow a fluctuating blast a second time, and the camps of those camping to the south must pull away. They should blow a fluctuating blast for each time one of them pulls away.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter10_verse7"></a><b><sup>7 </sup></b>“Now when calling the congregation together, <span class="smcap">YOU </span>should blow, but <span class="smcap">YOU </span>must not sound a fluctuating blast. <a id="chapter10_verse8"></a><b><sup>8 </sup></b>And Aaron’s sons, the priests, should blow on the trumpets, and the use of them must serve as a statute for <span class="smcap">YOU </span>men to time indefinite during <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>generations.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter10_verse9"></a><b><sup>9 </sup></b>“And in case <span class="smcap">YOU </span>should enter into war in <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>land against the oppressor who is harassing <span class="smcap">YOU</span>, <span class="smcap">YOU </span>must also sound a war call on the trumpets, and <span class="smcap">YOU </span>will certainly be remembered before Jehovah <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>God and be saved from <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>enemies.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter10_verse10"></a><b><sup>10 </sup></b>“And in the day of <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>rejoicing and in <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>festal seasons and at the commencements of <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>months, <span class="smcap">YOU </span>must blow on the trumpets over <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>burnt offerings and <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>communion sacrifices; and their use must serve as a memorial for <span class="smcap">YOU </span>before <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>God. I am Jehovah <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>God.”</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter10_verse11"></a><b><sup>11 </sup></b>Now it came about that in the second year, in the second month, on the twentieth day in the month, the cloud lifted itself from over the tabernacle of the Testimony. <a id="chapter10_verse12"></a><b><sup>12 </sup></b>And the sons of Israel began to pull away in the manner of their departures from the wilderness of Si′nai, and the cloud proceeded to reside in the wilderness of Pa′ran. <a id="chapter10_verse13"></a><b><sup>13 </sup></b>And they began pulling away for the first time, according to the order of Jehovah by means of Moses.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter10_verse14"></a><b><sup>14 </sup></b>So the three-tribe division of the camp of the sons of Judah pulled away first of all in their armies, and Nah′shon the son of Am·min′a·dab was over its army. <a id="chapter10_verse15"></a><b><sup>15 </sup></b>And over the army of the tribe of the sons of Is′sa·char there was Ne·than′el the son of Zu′ar. <a id="chapter10_verse16"></a><b><sup>16 </sup></b>And over the army of the tribe of the sons of Zeb′u·lun there was E·li′ab the son of He′lon.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter10_verse17"></a><b><sup>17 </sup></b>And the tabernacle was taken down, and the sons of Ger′shon and the sons of Me·rar′i as carriers of the tabernacle pulled away.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter10_verse18"></a><b><sup>18 </sup></b>And the three-tribe division of the camp of Reu′ben pulled away in their armies, and E·li′zur the son of Shed′e·ur was over its army. <a id="chapter10_verse19"></a><b><sup>19 </sup></b>And over the army of the tribe of the sons of Sim′e·on there was She·lu′mi·el the son of Zu·ri·shad′dai. <a id="chapter10_verse20"></a><b><sup>20 </sup></b>And over the army of the tribe of the sons of Gad there was E·li′a·saph the son of Deu′el.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter10_verse21"></a><b><sup>21 </sup></b>And the Ko′hath·ites as carriers of the sanctuary pulled away, as they will have set up the tabernacle by the time of their coming.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter10_verse22"></a><b><sup>22 </sup></b>And the three-tribe division of the camp of the sons of <a id="page195"></a>E′phra·im pulled away in their armies, and E·lish′a·ma the son of Am·mi′hud was over its army. <a id="chapter10_verse23"></a><b><sup>23 </sup></b>And over the army of the tribe of the sons of Ma·nas′seh there was Ga·ma′li·el the son of Pe·dah′zur. <a id="chapter10_verse24"></a><b><sup>24 </sup></b>And over the army of the tribe of the sons of Benjamin there was Ab′i·dan the son of Gid·e·o′ni.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter10_verse25"></a><b><sup>25 </sup></b>And the three-tribe division of the camp of the sons of Dan pulled away as forming the rear guard for all the camps in their armies, and A·hi·e′zer the son of Am·mi·shad′dai was over its army. <a id="chapter10_verse26"></a><b><sup>26 </sup></b>And over the army of the tribe of the sons of Ash′er there was Pa′gi·el the son of Och′ran. <a id="chapter10_verse27"></a><b><sup>27 </sup></b>And over the army of the tribe of the sons of Naph′ta·li there was A·hi′ra the son of E′nan. <a id="chapter10_verse28"></a><b><sup>28 </sup></b>In this manner were the departures of the sons of Israel in their armies when they would pull away.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter10_verse29"></a><b><sup>29 </sup></b>Then Moses said to Ho′bab the son of Reu′el the Mid′i·an·ite, the father-in-law of Moses: “We are pulling away for the place about which Jehovah said, ‘I shall give it to <span class="smcap">YOU</span>.’ Do come with us, and we shall certainly do good to you, because Jehovah has spoken good concerning Israel.” <a id="chapter10_verse30"></a><b><sup>30 </sup></b>But he said to him: “I shall not go along, but I shall go to my own country and to my relatives.” <a id="chapter10_verse31"></a><b><sup>31 </sup></b>At this he said: “Please, do not leave us, because, for the reason that you well know where we may encamp in the wilderness, you must serve as eyes for us. <a id="chapter10_verse32"></a><b><sup>32 </sup></b>And it must occur that in case you should come with us, yes, it must occur that with what goodness Jehovah will do good with us, we, in turn, will do good to you.”</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter10_verse33"></a><b><sup>33 </sup></b>So they went marching from the mountain of Jehovah for a journey of three days, and the ark of Jehovah’s covenant was marching before them for a journey of three days to search out a resting-place for them. <a id="chapter10_verse34"></a><b><sup>34 </sup></b>And Jehovah’s cloud was over them by day at their marching out from the encampment.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter10_verse35"></a><b><sup>35 </sup></b>And it would occur that when the Ark would set out, Moses would say: “Do arise, O Jehovah, and let your enemies be scattered; and let those who intensely hate you flee from before you.” <a id="chapter10_verse36"></a><b><sup>36 </sup></b>And when it would rest, he would say: “Do return, O Jehovah, to the myriads of thousands of Israel.”</p>
</body>
</html>
