<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="application/xhtml+xml; charset=utf-8" />
<title>Numbers</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/bi12.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
<p class="st"><a id="page177"></a><b>Numbers</b></p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter1"></a><a id="chapter1_verse1"></a><span class="w_ch"><b>1 </b></span>And Jehovah proceeded to speak to Moses in the wilderness of Si′nai, in the tent of meeting, on the first day of the second month in the second year of their coming out of the land of Egypt, and he said: <a id="chapter1_verse2"></a><b><sup>2 </sup></b>“T<span class="smcap">AKE </span>the sum of the whole assembly of the sons of Israel according to their families, according to the house of their fathers, by the number of names, all the males, head by head of them, <a id="chapter1_verse3"></a><b><sup>3 </sup></b>from twenty years old upward, everyone going out to the army in Israel. Y<span class="smcap">OU </span>should register them according to their armies, you and Aaron.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter1_verse4"></a><b><sup>4 </sup></b>“And some men should be with <span class="smcap">YOU</span>, one man to a tribe; each is a head to the house of his fathers. <a id="chapter1_verse5"></a><b><sup>5 </sup></b>And these are the names of the men who will stand with <span class="smcap">YOU</span>: Of Reu′ben, E·li′zur the son of Shed′e·ur; <a id="chapter1_verse6"></a><b><sup>6 </sup></b>of Sim′e·on, She·lu′mi·el the son of Zu·ri·shad′dai; <a id="chapter1_verse7"></a><b><sup>7 </sup></b>of Judah, Nah′shon the son of Am·min′a·dab; <a id="chapter1_verse8"></a><b><sup>8 </sup></b>of Is′sa·char, Ne·than′el the son of Zu′ar; <a id="chapter1_verse9"></a><b><sup>9 </sup></b>of Zeb′u·lun, E·li′ab the son of He′lon; <a id="chapter1_verse10"></a><b><sup>10 </sup></b>of the sons of Joseph: of E′phra·im, E·lish′a·ma the son of Am·mi′hud; of Ma·nas′seh, Ga·ma′li·el the son of Pe·dah′zur; <a id="chapter1_verse11"></a><b><sup>11 </sup></b>of Benjamin, Ab′i·dan the son of <a id="page178"></a>Gid·e·o′ni; <a id="chapter1_verse12"></a><b><sup>12 </sup></b>of Dan, A·hi·e′zer the son of Am·mi·shad′dai; <a id="chapter1_verse13"></a><b><sup>13 </sup></b>of Ash′er, Pa′gi·el the son of Och′ran; <a id="chapter1_verse14"></a><b><sup>14 </sup></b>of Gad, E·li′a·saph the son of Deu′el; <a id="chapter1_verse15"></a><b><sup>15 </sup></b>of Naph′ta·li, A·hi′ra the son of E′nan. <a id="chapter1_verse16"></a><b><sup>16 </sup></b>These are the ones called of the assembly, the chieftains of the tribes of their fathers. They are the heads of the thousands of Israel.”</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter1_verse17"></a><b><sup>17 </sup></b>So Moses and Aaron took these men who had been designated by names. <a id="chapter1_verse18"></a><b><sup>18 </sup></b>And they congregated all the assembly on the first day of the second month, that they might have their descent acknowledged as regards their families in the house of their fathers, by the number of the names, from twenty years old upward, head by head of them, <a id="chapter1_verse19"></a><b><sup>19 </sup></b>just as Jehovah had commanded Moses; and he proceeded to register them in the wilderness of Si′nai.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter1_verse20"></a><b><sup>20 </sup></b>And the sons of Reu′ben, Israel’s firstborn, their births according to their families in the house of their fathers, came to be by the number of names, head by head of them, all the males from twenty years old upward, everyone going out to the army, <a id="chapter1_verse21"></a><b><sup>21 </sup></b>those registered of them of the tribe of Reu′ben, forty-six thousand five hundred.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter1_verse22"></a><b><sup>22 </sup></b>Of the sons of Sim′e·on, their births according to their families in the house of their fathers, those registered ones of his by the number of names, head by head of them, all the males from twenty years old upward, everyone going out to the army, <a id="chapter1_verse23"></a><b><sup>23 </sup></b>those registered of them of the tribe of Sim′e·on were fifty-nine thousand three hundred.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter1_verse24"></a><b><sup>24 </sup></b>Of the sons of Gad, their births according to their families in the house of their fathers by the number of names from twenty years old upward, everyone going out to the army, <a id="chapter1_verse25"></a><b><sup>25 </sup></b>those registered of them of the tribe of Gad were forty-five thousand six hundred and fifty.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter1_verse26"></a><b><sup>26 </sup></b>Of the sons of Judah, their births according to their families in the house of their fathers by the number of names from twenty years old upward, everyone going out to the army, <a id="chapter1_verse27"></a><b><sup>27 </sup></b>those registered of them of the tribe of Judah were seventy-four thousand six hundred.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter1_verse28"></a><b><sup>28 </sup></b>Of the sons of Is′sa·char, their births according to their families in the house of their fathers by the number of names from twenty years old upward, everyone going out to the army, <a id="chapter1_verse29"></a><b><sup>29 </sup></b>those registered of them of the tribe of Is′sa·char were fifty-four thousand four hundred.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter1_verse30"></a><b><sup>30 </sup></b>Of the sons of Zeb′u·lun, their births according to their families in the house of their fathers by the number of names from twenty years old upward, everyone going out to the army, <a id="chapter1_verse31"></a><b><sup>31 </sup></b>those registered of them of the tribe of Zeb′u·lun were fifty-seven thousand four hundred.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter1_verse32"></a><b><sup>32 </sup></b>Of the sons of Joseph: of the sons of E′phra·im, their births according to their families in the house of their fathers by the number of names from twenty years old upward, everyone going out to the army, <a id="chapter1_verse33"></a><b><sup>33 </sup></b>those registered of them of the tribe of E′phra·im were forty thousand five hundred.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter1_verse34"></a><b><sup>34 </sup></b>Of the sons of Ma·nas′seh, their births according to their families in the house of their fathers by the number of names from twenty years old upward, everyone going out to the army, <a id="chapter1_verse35"></a><b><sup>35 </sup></b>those registered of them of the tribe of Ma·nas′seh were thirty-two thousand two hundred.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter1_verse36"></a><b><sup>36 </sup></b>Of the sons of Benjamin, their births according to their families in the house of their fathers by the number of names from twenty years old upward, <a id="page179"></a>everyone going out to the army, <a id="chapter1_verse37"></a><b><sup>37 </sup></b>those registered of them of the tribe of Benjamin were thirty-five thousand four hundred.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter1_verse38"></a><b><sup>38 </sup></b>Of the sons of Dan, their births according to their families in the house of their fathers by the number of names from twenty years old upward, everyone going out to the army, <a id="chapter1_verse39"></a><b><sup>39 </sup></b>those registered of them of the tribe of Dan were sixty-two thousand seven hundred.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter1_verse40"></a><b><sup>40 </sup></b>Of the sons of Ash′er, their births according to their families in the house of their fathers by the number of names from twenty years old upward, everyone going out to the army, <a id="chapter1_verse41"></a><b><sup>41 </sup></b>those registered of them of the tribe of Ash′er were forty-one thousand five hundred.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter1_verse42"></a><b><sup>42 </sup></b>Of the sons of Naph′ta·li, their births according to their families in the house of their fathers by the number of names from twenty years old upward, everyone going out to the army, <a id="chapter1_verse43"></a><b><sup>43 </sup></b>those registered of them of the tribe of Naph′ta·li were fifty-three thousand four hundred.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter1_verse44"></a><b><sup>44 </sup></b>These are the ones registered, whom Moses registered, together with Aaron and the chieftains of Israel, twelve men. They represented one each the house of his fathers. <a id="chapter1_verse45"></a><b><sup>45 </sup></b>And all those registered of the sons of Israel according to the house of their fathers from twenty years old upward, everyone going out to the army in Israel, came to be, <a id="chapter1_verse46"></a><b><sup>46 </sup></b>yes, all those registered came to be six hundred and three thousand five hundred and fifty.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter1_verse47"></a><b><sup>47 </sup></b>However, the Levites according to the tribe of their fathers did not get registered in among them. <a id="chapter1_verse48"></a><b><sup>48 </sup></b>Accordingly Jehovah spoke to Moses, saying: <a id="chapter1_verse49"></a><b><sup>49 </sup></b>“Only the tribe of Le′vi you must not register, and the sum of them you must not take in among the sons of Israel. <a id="chapter1_verse50"></a><b><sup>50 </sup></b>And you yourself appoint the Levites over the tabernacle of the Testimony and over all its utensils and over everything that belongs to it. They themselves will carry the tabernacle and all its utensils, and they themselves will minister at it; and around the tabernacle they are to camp. <a id="chapter1_verse51"></a><b><sup>51 </sup></b>And whenever the tabernacle is setting out, the Levites should take it down; and when the tabernacle encamps, the Levites should set it up; and any stranger coming near should be put to death.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter1_verse52"></a><b><sup>52 </sup></b>“And the sons of Israel must encamp each with reference to his camp, and each man by his three-tribe division by their armies. <a id="chapter1_verse53"></a><b><sup>53 </sup></b>And the Levites should encamp around the tabernacle of the Testimony, that no indignation may arise against the assembly of the sons of Israel; and the Levites must keep the service due to the tabernacle of the Testimony.”</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter1_verse54"></a><b><sup>54 </sup></b>And the sons of Israel proceeded to do according to all that Jehovah had commanded Moses. They did just so.</p>
</body>
</html>
