<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="application/xhtml+xml; charset=utf-8" />
<title>Numbers 33</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/bi12.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
<p class="w_biblebookname">Numbers</p><p class="sb"><a id="chapter33"></a><a id="chapter33_verse1"></a><span class="w_ch"><b>33 </b></span>These were the stages of the sons of Israel who went out of the land of Egypt in their armies by the hand of Moses and Aaron. <a id="chapter33_verse2"></a><b><sup>2 </sup></b>And Moses kept recording the departure places by their stages at the order of Jehovah; and these were their stages from one departure place to another: <a id="chapter33_verse3"></a><b><sup>3 </sup></b>And they proceeded to pull away from Ram′e·ses in the first month, on the fifteenth day of the first month. Directly the day after the passover the sons of Israel went out with uplifted hand before the eyes of all the Egyptians. <a id="chapter33_verse4"></a><b><sup>4 </sup></b>All the while the Egyptians were burying those whom Jehovah had struck among them, that is, all the firstborn; and upon their gods Jehovah had executed judgments.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter33_verse5"></a><b><sup>5 </sup></b>So the sons of Israel pulled away from Ram′e·ses and went camping in Suc′coth. <a id="chapter33_verse6"></a><b><sup>6 </sup></b>Then they pulled away from Suc′coth and went camping in E′tham, which is on the edge of the wilderness. <a id="chapter33_verse7"></a><b><sup>7 </sup></b>Next they pulled away from E′tham and turned back toward Pi·ha·hi′roth, which is in view of Ba′al-ze′phon; and they went camping before Mig′dol. <a id="chapter33_verse8"></a><b><sup>8 </sup></b>After that they pulled away from Pi·ha·hi′roth and went passing through the midst of the sea to the wilderness and kept marching a three-day journey in the wilderness of E′tham and took up camping at Ma′rah.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter33_verse9"></a><b><sup>9 </sup></b>Then they pulled away from Ma′rah and came to E′lim. Now in E′lim there were twelve springs of water and seventy palm trees. So they camped there. <a id="chapter33_verse10"></a><b><sup>10 </sup></b>Next they pulled away from E′lim and went camping by the Red Sea. <a id="chapter33_verse11"></a><b><sup>11 </sup></b>After that they pulled away from the Red Sea and took up camping in the wilderness of Sin. <a id="chapter33_verse12"></a><b><sup>12 </sup></b>Then they pulled away from the wilderness of Sin and went camping at Doph′kah. <a id="chapter33_verse13"></a><b><sup>13 </sup></b>Later they pulled away from Doph′kah and went camping at A′lush. <a id="chapter33_verse14"></a><b><sup>14 </sup></b>They next pulled away from A′lush and went camping in Reph′i·dim. And there proved to be no water there for the people to drink. <a id="chapter33_verse15"></a><b><sup>15 </sup></b>After that they pulled away from Reph′i·dim and went camping in the wilderness of Si′nai.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter33_verse16"></a><b><sup>16 </sup></b>Subsequently they pulled away from the wilderness of Si′nai and went camping at Kib′roth-hat·ta′a·vah. <a id="chapter33_verse17"></a><b><sup>17 </sup></b>Then they pulled away from Kib′roth-hat·ta′a·vah and went camping in Ha·ze′roth. <a id="chapter33_verse18"></a><b><sup>18 </sup></b>After that they pulled away from Ha·ze′roth and went camping in Rith′mah. <a id="chapter33_verse19"></a><b><sup>19 </sup></b>Next they pulled away from Rith′mah and took up camping in Rim′mon-pe′rez. <a id="chapter33_verse20"></a><b><sup>20 </sup></b>Then they pulled away from Rim′mon-pe′rez and went camping in Lib′nah. <a id="chapter33_verse21"></a><b><sup>21 </sup></b>Later they pulled away from Lib′nah and went camping in Ris′sah. <a id="chapter33_verse22"></a><b><sup>22 </sup></b>Next they pulled away from Ris′sah and went camping in Ke·he·la′thah. <a id="chapter33_verse23"></a><b><sup>23 </sup></b>Then they pulled away from Ke·he·la′thah and went camping in Mount She′pher.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter33_verse24"></a><b><sup>24 </sup></b>After that they pulled away from Mount She′pher and went camping in Har·a′dah. <a id="chapter33_verse25"></a><b><sup>25 </sup></b>Then they pulled away from Har·a′dah and went camping <a id="page231"></a>in Mak·he′loth. <a id="chapter33_verse26"></a><b><sup>26 </sup></b>Next they pulled away from Mak·he′loth and went camping in Ta′hath. <a id="chapter33_verse27"></a><b><sup>27 </sup></b>After that they pulled away from Ta′hath and went camping in Te′rah. <a id="chapter33_verse28"></a><b><sup>28 </sup></b>Then they pulled away from Te′rah and went camping in Mith′kah. <a id="chapter33_verse29"></a><b><sup>29 </sup></b>Later they pulled away from Mith′kah and went camping in Hash·mo′nah. <a id="chapter33_verse30"></a><b><sup>30 </sup></b>Next they pulled away from Hash·mo′nah and went camping in Mo·se′roth. <a id="chapter33_verse31"></a><b><sup>31 </sup></b>Then they pulled away from Mo·se′roth and went camping in Ben′e-ja′a·kan. <a id="chapter33_verse32"></a><b><sup>32 </sup></b>After that they pulled away from Ben′e-ja′a·kan and went camping in Hor-hag·gid′gad. <a id="chapter33_verse33"></a><b><sup>33 </sup></b>Next they pulled away from Hor-hag·gid′gad and went camping in Jot′ba·thah. <a id="chapter33_verse34"></a><b><sup>34 </sup></b>Later they pulled away from Jot′ba·thah and went camping in A·bro′nah. <a id="chapter33_verse35"></a><b><sup>35 </sup></b>Then they pulled away from A·bro′nah and went camping in E′zi·on-ge′ber. <a id="chapter33_verse36"></a><b><sup>36 </sup></b>After that they pulled away from E′zi·on-ge′ber and went camping in the wilderness of Zin, that is to say, Ka′desh.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter33_verse37"></a><b><sup>37 </sup></b>Later they pulled away from Ka′desh and went camping in Mount Hor, on the frontier of the land of E′dom. <a id="chapter33_verse38"></a><b><sup>38 </sup></b>And Aaron the priest proceeded to go up into Mount Hor at the order of Jehovah and to die there in the fortieth year of the going out of the sons of Israel from the land of Egypt, in the fifth month, on the first of the month. <a id="chapter33_verse39"></a><b><sup>39 </sup></b>And Aaron was a hundred and twenty-three years old at his death on Mount Hor.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter33_verse40"></a><b><sup>40 </sup></b>Now the Ca′naan·ite, the king of A′rad, as he was dwelling in the Neg′eb, in the land of Ca′naan, got to hear about the coming of the sons of Israel.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter33_verse41"></a><b><sup>41 </sup></b>In time they pulled away from Mount Hor and went camping in Zal·mo′nah. <a id="chapter33_verse42"></a><b><sup>42 </sup></b>After that they pulled away from Zal·mo′nah and went camping in Pu′non. <a id="chapter33_verse43"></a><b><sup>43 </sup></b>Next they pulled away from Pu′non and went camping in O′both. <a id="chapter33_verse44"></a><b><sup>44 </sup></b>Then they pulled away from O′both and went camping in I′ye-ab′a·rim on the border of Mo′ab. <a id="chapter33_verse45"></a><b><sup>45 </sup></b>Later they pulled away from I′yim and went camping in Di′bon-gad. <a id="chapter33_verse46"></a><b><sup>46 </sup></b>After that they pulled away from Di′bon-gad and went camping in Al′mon-dib·la·tha′im. <a id="chapter33_verse47"></a><b><sup>47 </sup></b>Then they pulled away from Al′mon-dib·la·tha′im and went camping in the mountains of Ab′a·rim before Ne′bo. <a id="chapter33_verse48"></a><b><sup>48 </sup></b>Finally they pulled away from the mountains of Ab′a·rim and took up camping on the desert plains of Mo′ab by the Jordan at Jer′i·cho. <a id="chapter33_verse49"></a><b><sup>49 </sup></b>And they continued camping by the Jordan from Beth-jesh′i·moth to A′bel-shit′tim on the desert plains of Mo′ab.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter33_verse50"></a><b><sup>50 </sup></b>And Jehovah proceeded to speak to Moses on the desert plains of Mo′ab by the Jordan at Jer′i·cho, saying: <a id="chapter33_verse51"></a><b><sup>51 </sup></b>“Speak to the sons of Israel, and you must say to them, ‘Y<span class="smcap">OU </span>are crossing the Jordan into the land of Ca′naan. <a id="chapter33_verse52"></a><b><sup>52 </sup></b>And <span class="smcap">YOU </span>must drive away all the inhabitants of the land from before <span class="smcap">YOU </span>and destroy all their stone figures, and all their images of molten metal <span class="smcap">YOU </span>should destroy, and all their sacred high places <span class="smcap">YOU </span>should annihilate. <a id="chapter33_verse53"></a><b><sup>53 </sup></b>And <span class="smcap">YOU </span>must take possession of the land and dwell in it, because to <span class="smcap">YOU </span>I shall certainly give the land to take possession of it. <a id="chapter33_verse54"></a><b><sup>54 </sup></b>And <span class="smcap">YOU </span>must apportion the land to yourselves as a possession by lot according to <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>families. To the populous one <span class="smcap">YOU </span>should increase his inheritance, and to the sparse one <span class="smcap">YOU </span>should reduce his inheritance. To where the lot will come out for him, there it will become his. By the tribes of <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>fathers <span class="smcap">YOU </span>should provide yourselves with landed property.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="page232"></a><a id="chapter33_verse55"></a><b><sup>55 </sup></b>“‘If, though, <span class="smcap">YOU </span>will not drive the inhabitants of the land away from before <span class="smcap">YOU</span>, then those whom <span class="smcap">YOU </span>leave of them will certainly become as pricks in <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>eyes and as thorns in <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>sides, and they will indeed harass <span class="smcap">YOU </span>on the land in which <span class="smcap">YOU </span>will be dwelling. <a id="chapter33_verse56"></a><b><sup>56 </sup></b>And it must occur that just as I had figured doing to them I shall do to <span class="smcap">YOU</span>.’”</p>
</body>
</html>
