<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="application/xhtml+xml; charset=utf-8" />
<title>Deuteronomy</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/bi12.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
<p class="st"><a id="page235"></a><b>Deuteronomy</b></p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter1"></a><a id="chapter1_verse1"></a><span class="w_ch"><b>1 </b></span>These are the words that Moses spoke to all Israel in the region of the Jordan in the wilderness, on the desert plains in front of Suph, between Pa′ran and To′phel and La′ban and Ha·ze′roth and Di′za·hab, <a id="chapter1_verse2"></a><b><sup>2 </sup></b>it being eleven days from Ho′reb by the way of Mount Se′ir to Ka′desh-bar′ne·a. <a id="chapter1_verse3"></a><b><sup>3 </sup></b>And it came about that in the fortieth year, in the eleventh month, on the first of the month, Moses spoke to the sons of Israel according to all that Jehovah had commanded him for them, <a id="chapter1_verse4"></a><b><sup>4 </sup></b>after his defeating Si′hon the king of the Am′or·ites, who was dwelling in Hesh′bon, and Og the king of Ba′shan, who was dwelling in Ash′ta·roth, in Ed′re·i. <a id="chapter1_verse5"></a><b><sup>5 </sup></b>In the region of the Jordan in the land of Mo′ab Moses undertook to explain this law, saying:</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter1_verse6"></a><b><sup>6 </sup></b>“Jehovah our God spoke to us in Ho′reb, saying, ‘Y<span class="smcap">OU </span>have <a id="page236"></a>dwelt long enough in this mountainous region. <a id="chapter1_verse7"></a><b><sup>7 </sup></b>Turn and set out on <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>way and go into the mountainous region of the Am′or·ites and to all their neighbors in the Ar′a·bah, the mountainous region and the She·phe′lah and the Neg′eb and the seacoast, the land of the Ca′naan·ites, and Leb′a·non, up to the great river, the river Eu·phra′tes. <a id="chapter1_verse8"></a><b><sup>8 </sup></b>See, I do put the land before <span class="smcap">YOU </span>people. Go in and take possession of the land about which Jehovah swore to <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>fathers, to Abraham, Isaac and Jacob, to give it to them and their seed after them.’</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter1_verse9"></a><b><sup>9 </sup></b>“And I proceeded to say this to <span class="smcap">YOU </span>at that particular time, ‘I am not able by myself to carry <span class="smcap">YOU</span>. <a id="chapter1_verse10"></a><b><sup>10 </sup></b>Jehovah <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>God has multiplied <span class="smcap">YOU</span>, and here <span class="smcap">YOU </span>are today like the stars of the heavens for multitude. <a id="chapter1_verse11"></a><b><sup>11 </sup></b>May Jehovah the God of <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>forefathers increase <span class="smcap">YOU </span>a thousand times as many as <span class="smcap">YOU </span>are, and may he bless <span class="smcap">YOU </span>just as he has promised <span class="smcap">YOU</span>. <a id="chapter1_verse12"></a><b><sup>12 </sup></b>How can I carry by myself the burden of <span class="smcap">YOU </span>and the load of <span class="smcap">YOU </span>and <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>quarreling? <a id="chapter1_verse13"></a><b><sup>13 </sup></b>Get wise and discreet and experienced men of <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>tribes, that I may set them as heads over <span class="smcap">YOU</span>.’ <a id="chapter1_verse14"></a><b><sup>14 </sup></b>At that <span class="smcap">YOU </span>answered me and said, ‘The thing you have spoken for us to do is good.’ <a id="chapter1_verse15"></a><b><sup>15 </sup></b>So I took the heads of <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>tribes, men wise and experienced, and put them as heads over <span class="smcap">YOU</span>, chiefs of thousands and chiefs of hundreds and chiefs of fifties and chiefs of tens and officers of <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>tribes.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter1_verse16"></a><b><sup>16 </sup></b>“And I went on to command <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>judges at that particular time, saying, ‘When having a hearing between <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>brothers, <span class="smcap">YOU </span>must judge with righteousness between a man and his brother or his alien resident. <a id="chapter1_verse17"></a><b><sup>17 </sup></b>Y<span class="smcap">OU </span>must not be partial in judgment. Y<span class="smcap">OU </span>should hear the little one the same as the great one. Y<span class="smcap">OU </span>must not become frightened because of a man, for the judgment belongs to God; and the case that is too hard for <span class="smcap">YOU</span>, <span class="smcap">YOU </span>should present to me, and I must hear it.’ <a id="chapter1_verse18"></a><b><sup>18 </sup></b>And I proceeded to command <span class="smcap">YOU </span>at that particular time all the things that <span class="smcap">YOU </span>should do.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter1_verse19"></a><b><sup>19 </sup></b>“Then we pulled away from Ho′reb and went marching through all that great and fear-inspiring wilderness, which <span class="smcap">YOU </span>have seen, by the way of the mountainous region of the Am′or·ites, just as Jehovah our God had commanded us; and we eventually came to Ka′desh-bar′ne·a. <a id="chapter1_verse20"></a><b><sup>20 </sup></b>I now said to <span class="smcap">YOU</span>, ‘Y<span class="smcap">OU </span>have come to the mountainous region of the Am′or·ites, which Jehovah our God is giving to us. <a id="chapter1_verse21"></a><b><sup>21 </sup></b>See, Jehovah your God has abandoned the land to you. Go up, take possession, just as Jehovah the God of your forefathers has spoken to you. Do not be afraid, nor be terrified.’</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter1_verse22"></a><b><sup>22 </sup></b>“However, all of <span class="smcap">YOU </span>came near to me and said, ‘Do let us send men ahead of us that they may search out the land for us and bring us back word concerning the way by which we should go up and the cities to which we will come.’ <a id="chapter1_verse23"></a><b><sup>23 </sup></b>Well, the thing proved to be good in my eyes, so that I took twelve men of <span class="smcap">YOURS</span>, one for each tribe. <a id="chapter1_verse24"></a><b><sup>24 </sup></b>Then they turned and went up into the mountainous region and got as far as the torrent valley of Esh′col and went spying on it. <a id="chapter1_verse25"></a><b><sup>25 </sup></b>And they proceeded to take some of the fruitage of the land in their hand and to bring it down to us, and they came bringing us back word and saying, ‘The land that Jehovah our God is giving us is good.’ <a id="chapter1_verse26"></a><b><sup>26 </sup></b>But <span class="smcap">YOU </span>did not wish to go up, and <span class="smcap">YOU </span>began to behave rebelliously <a id="page237"></a>against the order of Jehovah <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>God. <a id="chapter1_verse27"></a><b><sup>27 </sup></b>And <span class="smcap">YOU </span>kept grumbling in <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>tents and saying, ‘It was because Jehovah hated us that he brought us out of the land of Egypt to give us into the hand of the Am′or·ites, to annihilate us. <a id="chapter1_verse28"></a><b><sup>28 </sup></b>Where are we going up? Our brothers have caused our heart to melt, saying: “A people greater and taller than we are, cities great and fortified to the heavens and also the sons of the An′a·kim we saw there.”’</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter1_verse29"></a><b><sup>29 </sup></b>“So I said to <span class="smcap">YOU</span>, ‘Y<span class="smcap">OU </span>must not suffer a shock or be afraid because of them. <a id="chapter1_verse30"></a><b><sup>30 </sup></b>Jehovah <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>God is the one going before <span class="smcap">YOU</span>. He will fight for <span class="smcap">YOU </span>according to all that he did with <span class="smcap">YOU </span>in Egypt under <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>own eyes, <a id="chapter1_verse31"></a><b><sup>31 </sup></b>and in the wilderness, where you saw how Jehovah your God carried you just as a man carries his son, in all the way that <span class="smcap">YOU </span>walked until <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>coming to this place.’ <a id="chapter1_verse32"></a><b><sup>32 </sup></b>But despite this word <span class="smcap">YOU </span>were not putting faith in Jehovah <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>God, <a id="chapter1_verse33"></a><b><sup>33 </sup></b>who was going before <span class="smcap">YOU </span>in the way to spy out for <span class="smcap">YOU </span>a place for <span class="smcap">YOU </span>to camp, by fire at night for <span class="smcap">YOU </span>to see by what way <span class="smcap">YOU </span>should walk and by a cloud in daytime.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter1_verse34"></a><b><sup>34 </sup></b>“All the while Jehovah heard the voice of <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>words. So he became indignant and swore, saying, <a id="chapter1_verse35"></a><b><sup>35 </sup></b>‘Not one among these men of this evil generation will see the good land that I swore to give to <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>fathers, <a id="chapter1_verse36"></a><b><sup>36 </sup></b>except Ca′leb the son of Je·phun′neh. He will see it, and to him and to his sons I shall give the land upon which he trod, by reason of the fact that he has followed Jehovah fully. <a id="chapter1_verse37"></a><b><sup>37 </sup></b>(Even against me Jehovah got incensed on <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>account, saying, ‘You too will not go in there. <a id="chapter1_verse38"></a><b><sup>38 </sup></b>Joshua the son of Nun, who is standing before you, is the one who will go in there.’ Him he has made strong, because he will cause Israel to inherit it.) <a id="chapter1_verse39"></a><b><sup>39 </sup></b>As for <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>little ones of whom <span class="smcap">YOU </span>said: “Plunder they will become!” and <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>sons who today do not know good or bad, these will go in there, and to them I shall give it, and they will take possession of it. <a id="chapter1_verse40"></a><b><sup>40 </sup></b>As for <span class="smcap">YOU </span>yourselves, change <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>direction and pull away for the wilderness by the way of the Red Sea.’</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter1_verse41"></a><b><sup>41 </sup></b>“At this <span class="smcap">YOU </span>answered and said to me, ‘We have sinned against Jehovah. We—we shall go up and fight in accord with all that Jehovah our God has commanded us!’ So <span class="smcap">YOU </span>girded on, each one, his weapons of war and regarded it as easy to go up into the mountain. <a id="chapter1_verse42"></a><b><sup>42 </sup></b>But Jehovah said to me, ‘Say to them: “Y<span class="smcap">OU </span>must not go up and fight, because I am not in <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>midst; that <span class="smcap">YOU </span>may not be defeated before <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>enemies.”’ <a id="chapter1_verse43"></a><b><sup>43 </sup></b>So I spoke to <span class="smcap">YOU</span>, and <span class="smcap">YOU </span>did not listen but began to behave rebelliously against Jehovah’s order and to get all heated up, and <span class="smcap">YOU </span>tried to go up into the mountain. <a id="chapter1_verse44"></a><b><sup>44 </sup></b>Then the Am′or·ites who were dwelling in that mountain came out to meet <span class="smcap">YOU </span>and went chasing <span class="smcap">YOU</span>, just as bees do, and scattering <span class="smcap">YOU </span>in Se′ir as far as Hor′mah. <a id="chapter1_verse45"></a><b><sup>45 </sup></b>After that <span class="smcap">YOU </span>returned and began to weep before Jehovah, but Jehovah did not listen to <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>voice, neither did he give ear to <span class="smcap">YOU</span>. <a id="chapter1_verse46"></a><b><sup>46 </sup></b>So <span class="smcap">YOU </span>kept dwelling in Ka′desh many days, as many days as <span class="smcap">YOU </span>did dwell there.</p>
</body>
</html>
