<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="application/xhtml+xml; charset=utf-8" />
<title>Deuteronomy 3</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/bi12.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
<p class="w_biblebookname">Deuteronomy</p><p class="sb"><a id="chapter3"></a><a id="chapter3_verse1"></a><span class="w_ch"><b>3 </b></span>“Then we turned and went up by the way of Ba′shan. At this Og the king of Ba′shan came on out, he and all his people, to meet us in battle at Ed′re·i. <a id="chapter3_verse2"></a><b><sup>2 </sup></b>So Jehovah said to me, ‘Do not be afraid of him, for I shall certainly give him and all his people and his land into your hand; and you must do to him just as you did to Si′hon the king of the Am′or·ites, who was dwelling in Hesh′bon.’ <a id="chapter3_verse3"></a><b><sup>3 </sup></b>Accordingly Jehovah our God gave into our hand also Og the king of Ba′shan and all his people, and we kept striking him until he had no survivor remaining. <a id="chapter3_verse4"></a><b><sup>4 </sup></b>And we went capturing all his cities at that particular time. There proved to be no town that we did not take from them, sixty cities, all the region of Ar′gob, the kingdom of Og in Ba′shan. <a id="chapter3_verse5"></a><b><sup>5 </sup></b>All these were cities fortified with a high wall, doors and bar, aside from very many rural towns. <a id="chapter3_verse6"></a><b><sup>6 </sup></b>However, we devoted them to destruction, just as we had done to Si′hon the king of Hesh′bon, in devoting every city <a id="page240"></a>to destruction, men, women and little children. <a id="chapter3_verse7"></a><b><sup>7 </sup></b>And all the domestic animals and the spoil of the cities we took as plunder for ourselves.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter3_verse8"></a><b><sup>8 </sup></b>“And we proceeded to take at that particular time the land from the hand of the two kings of the Am′or·ites who were in the region of the Jordan, from the torrent valley of Ar′non as far as Mount Her′mon; <a id="chapter3_verse9"></a><b><sup>9 </sup></b>(the Si·do′ni·ans used to call Her′mon Sir′i·on, and the Am′or·ites used to call it Se′nir,) <a id="chapter3_verse10"></a><b><sup>10 </sup></b>all the cities of the tableland and all Gil′e·ad and all Ba′shan as far as Sal′e·cah and Ed′re·i, the cities of the kingdom of Og in Ba′shan. <a id="chapter3_verse11"></a><b><sup>11 </sup></b>For only Og the king of Ba′shan remained of what was left of the Reph′a·im. Look! His bier was a bier of iron. Is it not in Rab′bah of the sons of Am′mon? Nine cubits is its length, and four cubits its width, by the cubit of a man. <a id="chapter3_verse12"></a><b><sup>12 </sup></b>And we took possession of this land at that particular time; from A·ro′er, which is by the torrent valley of Ar′non, and half of the mountainous region of Gil′e·ad, and its cities I have given to the Reu′ben·ites and the Gad′ites. <a id="chapter3_verse13"></a><b><sup>13 </sup></b>And the rest of Gil′e·ad and all Ba′shan of the kingdom of Og I have given to the half tribe of Ma·nas′seh. All the region of Ar′gob of all Ba′shan, is it not called the land of the Reph′a·im?</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter3_verse14"></a><b><sup>14 </sup></b>“Ja′ir the son of Ma·nas′seh took all the region of Ar′gob as far as the boundary of the Gesh′ur·ites and the Ma·ac′a·thites, and he proceeded to call those villages of Ba′shan by his own name, Hav′voth-ja′ir, to this day. <a id="chapter3_verse15"></a><b><sup>15 </sup></b>And to Ma′chir I have given Gil′e·ad. <a id="chapter3_verse16"></a><b><sup>16 </sup></b>And to the Reu′ben·ites and the Gad′ites I have given from Gil′e·ad to the torrent valley of Ar′non, the middle of the torrent valley being a boundary, and as far as Jab′bok, the torrent valley that is the boundary of the sons of Am′mon; <a id="chapter3_verse17"></a><b><sup>17 </sup></b>and the Ar′a·bah and the Jordan and the border, from Chin′ne·reth to the sea of the Ar′a·bah, the Salt Sea, at the base of the slopes of Pis′gah toward the sunrising.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter3_verse18"></a><b><sup>18 </sup></b>“So I commanded <span class="smcap">YOU </span>men at that particular time, saying, ‘Jehovah <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>God has given <span class="smcap">YOU </span>this land to take possession of it. Y<span class="smcap">OU </span>will pass over, equipped, before <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>brothers, the sons of Israel, all the valiant men. <a id="chapter3_verse19"></a><b><sup>19 </sup></b>Only <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>wives and <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>little ones and <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>livestock (I well know that <span class="smcap">YOU </span>have a great deal of livestock) will continue dwelling in <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>cities that I have given <span class="smcap">YOU</span>, <a id="chapter3_verse20"></a><b><sup>20 </sup></b>until Jehovah gives <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>brothers rest, as well as <span class="smcap">YOU</span>, and they also have taken possession of the land that Jehovah <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>God is giving them across the Jordan; after which <span class="smcap">YOU </span>must come back, each one to his holding that I have given <span class="smcap">YOU</span>.’</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter3_verse21"></a><b><sup>21 </sup></b>“And I commanded Joshua at that particular time, saying, ‘Your eyes are seeing all that Jehovah <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>God has done to these two kings. The same way Jehovah will do to all the kingdoms to which you are passing over there. <a id="chapter3_verse22"></a><b><sup>22 </sup></b>Y<span class="smcap">OU </span>men must not be afraid of them, for Jehovah <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>God is the One fighting for <span class="smcap">YOU</span>.’</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter3_verse23"></a><b><sup>23 </sup></b>“And I proceeded to implore favor from Jehovah at that particular time, saying, <a id="chapter3_verse24"></a><b><sup>24 </sup></b>‘O Sovereign Lord Jehovah, you yourself have started to make your servant see your greatness and your strong arm, for who is a god in the heavens or on the earth that does deeds like yours and mighty performances like yours? <a id="chapter3_verse25"></a><b><sup>25 </sup></b>Let me pass over, please, and see the good land that is across the Jordan, this good mountainous region <a id="page241"></a>and Leb′a·non.’ <a id="chapter3_verse26"></a><b><sup>26 </sup></b>And Jehovah continued to be furious against me on <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>account and did not listen to me; but Jehovah said to me, ‘That is enough of you! Never speak to me further on this matter. <a id="chapter3_verse27"></a><b><sup>27 </sup></b>Go up to the top of Pis′gah and raise your eyes to the west and north and south and east and see with your eyes, for you will not pass over this Jordan. <a id="chapter3_verse28"></a><b><sup>28 </sup></b>And commission Joshua and encourage him and strengthen him, because he is the one to pass over before this people and he is the one to cause them to inherit the land that you will see.’ <a id="chapter3_verse29"></a><b><sup>29 </sup></b>All this while we were dwelling in the valley in front of Beth-pe′or.</p>
</body>
</html>
