<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="application/xhtml+xml; charset=utf-8" />
<title>Joshua 21</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/bi12.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
<p class="w_biblebookname">Joshua</p><p class="sb"><a id="chapter21"></a><a id="chapter21_verse1"></a><span class="w_ch"><b>21 </b></span>The heads of the fathers of the Levites now approached El·e·a′zar the priest and Joshua the son of Nun and the heads of the fathers of the tribes of the sons of Israel, <a id="chapter21_verse2"></a><b><sup>2 </sup></b>and they proceeded to speak to them in Shi′loh in the land of Ca′naan, saying: “Jehovah by means of Moses commanded cities to be given us in which to dwell, together with their pasture grounds for our domestic animals.” <a id="chapter21_verse3"></a><b><sup>3 </sup></b>So the sons of Israel gave the Levites, at the order of Jehovah, these cities and their pasture grounds out of their inheritance.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter21_verse4"></a><b><sup>4 </sup></b>Then the lot came out for the families of the Ko′hath·ites, and thirteen cities came to belong to the sons of Aaron the priest, of the Levites, by lot, out of the tribe of Judah and out of the tribe of the Sim′e·on·ites and out of the tribe of Benjamin.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="page315"></a><a id="chapter21_verse5"></a><b><sup>5 </sup></b>And for the sons of Ko′hath that were left over there were by lot ten cities out of the families of the tribe of E′phra·im and out of the tribe of Dan and out of the half tribe of Ma·nas′seh.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter21_verse6"></a><b><sup>6 </sup></b>And for the sons of Ger′shon there were by lot thirteen cities out of the families of the tribe of Is′sa·char and out of the tribe of Ash′er and out of the tribe of Naph′ta·li and out of the half tribe of Ma·nas′seh in Ba′shan.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter21_verse7"></a><b><sup>7 </sup></b>For the sons of Me·rar′i by their families there were twelve cities out of the tribe of Reu′ben and out of the tribe of Gad and out of the tribe of Zeb′u·lun.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter21_verse8"></a><b><sup>8 </sup></b>Thus the sons of Israel gave the Levites these cities and their pasture grounds by lot, just as Jehovah had commanded by means of Moses.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter21_verse9"></a><b><sup>9 </sup></b>So out of the tribe of the sons of Judah and out of the tribe of the sons of Sim′e·on they gave these cities that were called by name, <a id="chapter21_verse10"></a><b><sup>10 </sup></b>and they came to belong to the sons of Aaron out of the families of the Ko′hath·ites of the sons of Le′vi, because the first lot became theirs. <a id="chapter21_verse11"></a><b><sup>11 </sup></b>Thus they gave them Kir′i·ath-ar′ba (said Ar′ba being the father of A′nak), that is to say, He′bron, in the mountainous region of Judah, and its pasture ground all around it; <a id="chapter21_verse12"></a><b><sup>12 </sup></b>and the field of the city and its settlements they gave to Ca′leb the son of Je·phun′neh as his possession.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter21_verse13"></a><b><sup>13 </sup></b>And to the sons of Aaron the priest they gave the city of refuge for the manslayer, namely, He′bron, and its pasture ground, also Lib′nah and its pasture ground, <a id="chapter21_verse14"></a><b><sup>14 </sup></b>and Jat′tir and its pasture ground, and Esh·te·mo′a and its pasture ground, <a id="chapter21_verse15"></a><b><sup>15 </sup></b>and Ho′lon and its pasture ground, and De′bir and its pasture ground, <a id="chapter21_verse16"></a><b><sup>16 </sup></b>and A′in and its pasture ground, and Jut′tah and its pasture ground, Beth-she′mesh and its pasture ground; nine cities out of these two tribes.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter21_verse17"></a><b><sup>17 </sup></b>And out of the tribe of Benjamin, Gib′e·on and its pasture ground, Ge′ba and its pasture ground, <a id="chapter21_verse18"></a><b><sup>18 </sup></b>An′a·thoth and its pasture ground, and Al′mon and its pasture ground; four cities.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter21_verse19"></a><b><sup>19 </sup></b>All the cities of the sons of Aaron, the priests, were thirteen cities and their pasture grounds.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter21_verse20"></a><b><sup>20 </sup></b>And for the families of the sons of Ko′hath, the Levites who were left over of the sons of Ko′hath, there came to be by their lot cities out of the tribe of E′phra·im. <a id="chapter21_verse21"></a><b><sup>21 </sup></b>Accordingly they gave them the city of refuge for the manslayer, namely, She′chem, and its pasture ground in the mountainous region of E′phra·im, and Ge′zer and its pasture ground, <a id="chapter21_verse22"></a><b><sup>22 </sup></b>and Kib′za·im and its pasture ground, and Beth-ho′ron and its pasture ground; four cities.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter21_verse23"></a><b><sup>23 </sup></b>And from the tribe of Dan, El′te·ke and its pasture ground, Gib′be·thon and its pasture ground, <a id="chapter21_verse24"></a><b><sup>24 </sup></b>Ai′ja·lon and its pasture ground, Gath-rim′mon and its pasture ground; four cities.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter21_verse25"></a><b><sup>25 </sup></b>And from the half tribe of Ma·nas′seh, Ta′a·nach and its pasture ground, and Gath-rim′mon and its pasture ground; two cities.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter21_verse26"></a><b><sup>26 </sup></b>All the cities together with their pasture grounds that the families of the sons of Ko′hath who were left over had were ten.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter21_verse27"></a><b><sup>27 </sup></b>And for the sons of Ger′shon, of the families of the <a id="page316"></a>Levites, there was out of the half tribe of Ma·nas′seh the city of refuge for the manslayer, namely, Go′lan, in Ba′shan, and its pasture ground, and Be·esh′te·rah and its pasture ground; two cities.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter21_verse28"></a><b><sup>28 </sup></b>And out of the tribe of Is′sa·char, Kish′i·on and its pasture ground, Dab′e·rath and its pasture ground, <a id="chapter21_verse29"></a><b><sup>29 </sup></b>Jar′muth and its pasture ground, En-gan′nim and its pasture ground; four cities.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter21_verse30"></a><b><sup>30 </sup></b>And out of the tribe of Ash′er, Mi′shal and its pasture ground, Ab′don and its pasture ground, <a id="chapter21_verse31"></a><b><sup>31 </sup></b>Hel′kath and its pasture ground, and Re′hob and its pasture ground; four cities.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter21_verse32"></a><b><sup>32 </sup></b>And out of the tribe of Naph′ta·li, the city of refuge for the manslayer, namely, Ke′desh in Gal′i·lee, and its pasture ground, and Ham′moth-dor and its pasture ground, and Kar′tan and its pasture ground; three cities.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter21_verse33"></a><b><sup>33 </sup></b>All the cities of the Ger′shon·ites by their families were thirteen cities and their pasture grounds.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter21_verse34"></a><b><sup>34 </sup></b>And the families of the sons of Me·rar′i, the Levites who were left over, had out of the tribe of Zeb′u·lun Jok′ne·am and its pasture ground, Kar′tah and its pasture ground, <a id="chapter21_verse35"></a><b><sup>35 </sup></b>Dim′nah and its pasture ground, Na·hal′al and its pasture ground; four cities.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter21_verse36"></a><b><sup>36 </sup></b>And out of the tribe of Reu′ben, Be′zer and its pasture ground, and Ja′haz and its pasture ground, <a id="chapter21_verse37"></a><b><sup>37 </sup></b>Ked′e·moth and its pasture ground, and Meph′a·ath and its pasture ground; four cities.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter21_verse38"></a><b><sup>38 </sup></b>And out of the tribe of Gad, the city of refuge for the manslayer, namely, Ra′moth in Gil′e·ad, and its pasture ground, and Ma·ha·na′im and its pasture ground, <a id="chapter21_verse39"></a><b><sup>39 </sup></b>Hesh′bon and its pasture ground, Ja′zer and its pasture ground; all the cities being four.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter21_verse40"></a><b><sup>40 </sup></b>All the cities that came to belong to the sons of Me·rar′i by their families, who were left over from the families of the Levites, were, as their lot, twelve cities.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter21_verse41"></a><b><sup>41 </sup></b>All the cities of the Levites in the midst of the possession of the sons of Israel were forty-eight cities together with their pasture grounds. <a id="chapter21_verse42"></a><b><sup>42 </sup></b>These cities came to be each a city together with its pasture ground all around it—thus as to all these cities.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter21_verse43"></a><b><sup>43 </sup></b>So Jehovah gave Israel all the land that he had sworn to give to their forefathers, and they proceeded to take possession of it and to dwell in it. <a id="chapter21_verse44"></a><b><sup>44 </sup></b>Furthermore, Jehovah gave them rest all around, according to everything that he had sworn to their forefathers, and not one of all their enemies stood before them. All their enemies Jehovah gave into their hand. <a id="chapter21_verse45"></a><b><sup>45 </sup></b>Not a promise failed out of all the good promise that Jehovah had made to the house of Israel; it all came true.</p>
</body>
</html>
