<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="application/xhtml+xml; charset=utf-8" />
<title>Joshua 24</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/bi12.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
<p class="w_biblebookname">Joshua</p><p class="sb"><a id="chapter24"></a><a id="chapter24_verse1"></a><span class="w_ch"><b>24 </b></span>And Joshua proceeded to assemble all the tribes of Israel together at She′chem and to call the older men of Israel and its heads and its judges and its officers, and they went taking their stand before the true God. <a id="chapter24_verse2"></a><b><sup>2 </sup></b>And Joshua went on to say to all the people: “This is what Jehovah the God of Israel has said, ‘It was on the other side of the River that <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>forefathers dwelt a long time ago, Te′rah the father of Abraham and the father of Na′hor, and they used to serve other gods.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter24_verse3"></a><b><sup>3 </sup></b>“‘In time I took <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>forefather Abraham from the other side of the River and had him walk through all the land of Ca′naan and made his seed many. So I gave him Isaac. <a id="chapter24_verse4"></a><b><sup>4 </sup></b>Then to Isaac I gave Jacob and E′sau. Later to E′sau I gave Mount Se′ir to take possession of it; and Jacob and his sons went down to Egypt. <a id="chapter24_verse5"></a><b><sup>5 </sup></b>Later on I sent Moses and Aaron, and I went plaguing Egypt with what I did in its midst; and afterward I brought <span class="smcap">YOU </span>out. <a id="chapter24_verse6"></a><b><sup>6 </sup></b>When I was bringing <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>fathers out of Egypt and <span class="smcap">YOU </span>came to the sea, then the Egyptians went chasing after <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>fathers with war chariots and cavalrymen to the Red Sea. <a id="chapter24_verse7"></a><b><sup>7 </sup></b>And they began to cry out to Jehovah. So he placed a darkness between <span class="smcap">YOU </span>and the Egyptians and brought the sea upon them and covered them, and <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>eyes got to see what I did in Egypt; and <span class="smcap">YOU </span>took up dwelling in the wilderness many days.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter24_verse8"></a><b><sup>8 </sup></b>“‘Eventually I brought <span class="smcap">YOU </span>to the land of the Am′or·ites who were dwelling on the other side of the Jordan, and they went fighting against <span class="smcap">YOU</span>. At that I gave them into <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>hand that <span class="smcap">YOU </span>might take possession of their land, and I annihilated them from before <span class="smcap">YOU</span>. <a id="chapter24_verse9"></a><b><sup>9 </sup></b>Then Ba′lak the son of Zip′por, the king of Mo′ab, got up and went fighting against Israel. So he sent and summoned Ba′laam the son of Be′or to call down evil upon <span class="smcap">YOU</span>. <a id="chapter24_verse10"></a><b><sup>10 </sup></b>And I did not want to listen to Ba′laam. Consequently he blessed <span class="smcap">YOU </span>repeatedly. Thus I delivered <span class="smcap">YOU </span>out of his hand.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter24_verse11"></a><b><sup>11 </sup></b>“‘Then <span class="smcap">YOU </span>went crossing the Jordan and came to Jer′i·cho. And the landowners of Jer′i·cho, the Am′or·ites and the Per′iz·zites and the Ca′naan·ites and the Hit′tites and the Gir′ga·shites, the Hi′vites and the Jeb′u·sites began fighting against <span class="smcap">YOU</span>; but I gave them into <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>hand. <a id="chapter24_verse12"></a><b><sup>12 </sup></b>So I sent the feeling of dejection ahead of <span class="smcap">YOU</span>, and it gradually drove them out before <span class="smcap">YOU</span>—two kings of the Am′or·ites—not with your sword and not with your bow. <a id="chapter24_verse13"></a><b><sup>13 </sup></b>Thus I gave <span class="smcap">YOU </span>a land for which <span class="smcap">YOU </span>had not toiled and cities that <span class="smcap">YOU </span>had not built, and <span class="smcap">YOU </span>took up dwelling in them. Vineyards and olive groves that <span class="smcap">YOU </span>did not plant are what <span class="smcap">YOU </span>are eating.’</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter24_verse14"></a><b><sup>14 </sup></b>“And now fear Jehovah and serve him in faultlessness and in truth, and remove the gods that <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>forefathers served on the other side of the River and in Egypt, and serve Jehovah. <a id="chapter24_verse15"></a><b><sup>15 </sup></b>Now if it is bad in <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>eyes to serve Jehovah, choose for yourselves today whom <span class="smcap">YOU </span>will serve, whether the gods that <a id="page321"></a><span class="smcap">YOUR </span>forefathers who were on the other side of the River served or the gods of the Am′or·ites in whose land <span class="smcap">YOU </span>are dwelling. But as for me and my household, we shall serve Jehovah.”</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter24_verse16"></a><b><sup>16 </sup></b>At this the people answered and said: “It is unthinkable, on our part, to leave Jehovah so as to serve other gods. <a id="chapter24_verse17"></a><b><sup>17 </sup></b>For it is Jehovah our God who brought us and our fathers up out of the land of Egypt, out of the house of slaves, and who performed these great signs before our eyes and who kept guarding us in all the way in which we walked and among all the peoples through the midst of whom we passed. <a id="chapter24_verse18"></a><b><sup>18 </sup></b>And Jehovah proceeded to drive out all the peoples, even the Am′or·ites, dwelling in the land from before us. As for us, too, we shall serve Jehovah, because he is our God.”</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter24_verse19"></a><b><sup>19 </sup></b>Then Joshua said to the people: “Y<span class="smcap">OU </span>are not able to serve Jehovah, for he is a holy God; he is a God exacting exclusive devotion. He will not pardon <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>revolting and <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>sins. <a id="chapter24_verse20"></a><b><sup>20 </sup></b>In case <span class="smcap">YOU </span>should leave Jehovah and <span class="smcap">YOU </span>do serve foreign gods, he also will certainly turn back and do <span class="smcap">YOU </span>injury and exterminate <span class="smcap">YOU </span>after he has done <span class="smcap">YOU </span>good.”</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter24_verse21"></a><b><sup>21 </sup></b>In turn the people said to Joshua: “No, but Jehovah we shall serve!” <a id="chapter24_verse22"></a><b><sup>22 </sup></b>At this Joshua said to the people: “Y<span class="smcap">OU </span>are witnesses against yourselves that <span class="smcap">YOU </span>of <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>own accord have chosen Jehovah for yourselves, to serve him.” To this they said: “We are witnesses.”</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter24_verse23"></a><b><sup>23 </sup></b>“And now remove the foreign gods that are among <span class="smcap">YOU</span>, and incline <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>hearts to Jehovah the God of Israel.” <a id="chapter24_verse24"></a><b><sup>24 </sup></b>In turn the people said to Joshua: “Jehovah our God we shall serve, and to his voice we shall listen!”</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter24_verse25"></a><b><sup>25 </sup></b>And Joshua proceeded to conclude a covenant with the people on that day and to constitute for them a regulation and judicial decision in She′chem. <a id="chapter24_verse26"></a><b><sup>26 </sup></b>Then Joshua wrote these words in the book of God’s law and took a great stone and set it up there under the massive tree that is by the sanctuary of Jehovah.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter24_verse27"></a><b><sup>27 </sup></b>And Joshua went on to say to all the people: “Look! This stone is what will serve as a witness against us, because it has itself heard all the sayings of Jehovah that he has spoken with us, and it must serve as a witness against <span class="smcap">YOU</span>, that <span class="smcap">YOU </span>may not deny <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>God.” <a id="chapter24_verse28"></a><b><sup>28 </sup></b>With that Joshua sent the people away, each one to his inheritance.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter24_verse29"></a><b><sup>29 </sup></b>And it came about that after these things Joshua the son of Nun, the servant of Jehovah, gradually died at the age of a hundred and ten years. <a id="chapter24_verse30"></a><b><sup>30 </sup></b>So they buried him in the territory of his inheritance in Tim′nath-se′rah, which is in the mountainous region of E′phra·im, north of Mount Ga′ash. <a id="chapter24_verse31"></a><b><sup>31 </sup></b>And Israel continued to serve Jehovah all the days of Joshua and all the days of the older men who extended their days after Joshua and who had known all the work of Jehovah that he did for Israel.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter24_verse32"></a><b><sup>32 </sup></b>And Joseph’s bones, which the sons of Israel had brought up out of Egypt, they buried in She′chem in the tract of the field that Jacob had acquired from the sons of Ha′mor, She′chem’s father, for a hundred pieces of money; and it came to belong to the sons of Joseph as an inheritance.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter24_verse33"></a><b><sup>33 </sup></b>Also, El·e·a′zar the son of Aaron died. So they buried him in the Hill of Phin′e·has his son, which he had given him in the mountainous region of E′phra·im.</p>
</body>
</html>
