<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="application/xhtml+xml; charset=utf-8" />
<title>Joshua 16</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/bi12.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
<p class="w_biblebookname">Joshua</p><p class="sb"><a id="chapter16"></a><a id="chapter16_verse1"></a><span class="w_ch"><b>16 </b></span>And the lot came out for the sons of Joseph from the Jordan at Jer′i·cho to the waters of Jer′i·cho eastward, the wilderness going up from Jer′i·cho into the mountainous region of Beth′el. <a id="chapter16_verse2"></a><b><sup>2 </sup></b>And it went out from Beth′el belonging to Luz and passed over to the boundary of the Ar′chites at At′a·roth, <a id="chapter16_verse3"></a><b><sup>3 </sup></b>and it went down westward to the boundary of the Japh′le·tites as far as the boundary of Lower Beth-ho′ron and Ge′zer, and its termination proved to be at the sea.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter16_verse4"></a><b><sup>4 </sup></b>And the sons of Joseph, Ma·nas′seh and E′phra·im, proceeded to take possession of land. <a id="chapter16_verse5"></a><b><sup>5 </sup></b>And the boundary of the sons of E′phra·im by their families came to be, yes, the boundary of their inheritance toward the east came to be At′a·roth-ad′dar, as far as Upper Beth-ho′ron; <a id="chapter16_verse6"></a><b><sup>6 </sup></b>and the boundary went out to the sea. Mich·me′thath was on the north, and the boundary went around eastward to Ta′a·nath-shi′loh, and passed over eastward to Ja·no′ah. <a id="chapter16_verse7"></a><b><sup>7 </sup></b>And it went down from Ja·no′ah to At′a·roth and Na′a·rah and reached to Jer′i·cho and went out to the Jordan. <a id="chapter16_verse8"></a><b><sup>8 </sup></b>From Tap′pu·ah the boundary moved on westward to the torrent valley of Ka′nah, and its termination proved to be at the sea. This is the inheritance of the tribe of the sons of E′phra·im by their families. <a id="chapter16_verse9"></a><b><sup>9 </sup></b>And the sons of E′phra·im had enclave cities in the midst of the inheritance of the sons of Ma·nas′seh, all the cities and their settlements.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter16_verse10"></a><b><sup>10 </sup></b>And they did not drive away the Ca′naan·ites who were dwelling in Ge′zer, and the Ca′naan·ites continue dwelling in among E′phra·im down to this day and came to be subject to slavish forced labor.</p>
</body>
</html>
