<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="application/xhtml+xml; charset=utf-8" />
<title>Joshua 13</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/bi12.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
<p class="w_biblebookname">Joshua</p><p class="sb"><a id="chapter13"></a><a id="chapter13_verse1"></a><span class="w_ch"><b>13 </b></span>Now Joshua was old, being advanced in years. So Jehovah said to him: “You yourself have grown old and have advanced in years, and to a very great extent the land yet remains to be taken in possession. <a id="chapter13_verse2"></a><b><sup>2 </sup></b>This is the land yet remaining: all the regions of the Phi·lis′tines and all the Gesh′ur·ites <a id="chapter13_verse3"></a><b><sup>3 </sup></b>(from the branch of the Nile that is in front of Egypt and up to the border of Ek′ron to the north, it used to be reckoned as belonging to the Ca′naan·ites); five axis lords of the Phi·lis′tines, the Ga′zites and the Ash′dod·ites, the Ash′ke·lon·ites, the Git′tites and the Ek′ron·ites; and the Av′vim. <a id="chapter13_verse4"></a><b><sup>4 </sup></b>To the south all the land of the Ca′naan·ites; and Me·ar′ah, which belongs to the Si·do′ni·ans, as far as A′phek, as far as the border of the Am′or·ites; <a id="chapter13_verse5"></a><b><sup>5 </sup></b>and the land of the Ge′bal·ites and all of Leb′a·non toward the rising of the sun, from Ba′al-gad at the base of Mount Her′mon as far as to the entering in of Ha′math; <a id="chapter13_verse6"></a><b><sup>6 </sup></b>all the inhabitants of the mountainous region, from Leb′a·non to Mis′re·photh-ma′im, all the Si·do′ni·ans; I myself shall dispossess <a id="page305"></a>them from before the sons of Israel. Only make it fall to Israel as an inheritance, just as I have commanded you. <a id="chapter13_verse7"></a><b><sup>7 </sup></b>And now apportion this land as an inheritance to the nine tribes and the half tribe of Ma·nas′seh.”</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter13_verse8"></a><b><sup>8 </sup></b>With the other half tribe the Reu′ben·ites and the Gad′ites took their inheritance that Moses gave them on the side of the Jordan toward the east, just as Moses the servant of Jehovah had given them, <a id="chapter13_verse9"></a><b><sup>9 </sup></b>from A·ro′er, which is on the bank of the torrent valley of Ar′non, and the city that is in the middle of the torrent valley, and all the tableland of Med′e·ba as far as Di′bon; <a id="chapter13_verse10"></a><b><sup>10 </sup></b>and all the cities of Si′hon the king of the Am′or·ites, who reigned in Hesh′bon, up to the border of the sons of Am′mon; <a id="chapter13_verse11"></a><b><sup>11 </sup></b>and Gil′e·ad and the territory of the Gesh′ur·ites and the Ma·ac′a·thites and all of Mount Her′mon and all Ba′shan as far as Sal′e·cah; <a id="chapter13_verse12"></a><b><sup>12 </sup></b>all the royal realm of Og in Ba′shan, who reigned in Ash′ta·roth and in Ed′re·i—he it was who remained of what was left of the Reph′a·im—and Moses went striking them and dispossessing them. <a id="chapter13_verse13"></a><b><sup>13 </sup></b>And the sons of Israel did not dispossess the Gesh′ur·ites and the Ma·ac′a·thites, but Gesh′ur and Ma′a·cath keep dwelling in the midst of Israel down to this day.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter13_verse14"></a><b><sup>14 </sup></b>It was only to the tribe of the Levites that he did not give an inheritance. The offerings made by fire of Jehovah the God of Israel are their inheritance, just as he has promised them.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter13_verse15"></a><b><sup>15 </sup></b>Then Moses made a gift to the tribe of the sons of Reu′ben by their families, <a id="chapter13_verse16"></a><b><sup>16 </sup></b>and the territory came to be theirs from A·ro′er, which is on the bank of the torrent valley of Ar′non, and the city that is in the middle of the torrent valley, and all the tableland by Med′e·ba; <a id="chapter13_verse17"></a><b><sup>17 </sup></b>Hesh′bon and all its towns that are on the tableland, Di′bon and Ba′moth-ba′al and Beth-ba′al-me′on, <a id="chapter13_verse18"></a><b><sup>18 </sup></b>and Ja′haz and Ked′e·moth and Meph′a·ath, <a id="chapter13_verse19"></a><b><sup>19 </sup></b>and Kir·i·a·tha′im and Sib′mah and Ze′reth-sha′har in the mountain of the low plain, <a id="chapter13_verse20"></a><b><sup>20 </sup></b>and Beth-pe′or and the slopes of Pis′gah and Beth-jesh′i·moth, <a id="chapter13_verse21"></a><b><sup>21 </sup></b>and all the cities of the tableland and all the royal realm of Si′hon the king of the Am′or·ites, who reigned in Hesh′bon, and whom Moses struck, together with the chieftains of Mid′i·an, E′vi and Re′kem and Zur and Hur and Re′ba, the dukes of Si′hon, who were dwelling in the land. <a id="chapter13_verse22"></a><b><sup>22 </sup></b>And Ba′laam the son of Be′or, the diviner, was one whom the sons of Israel killed with the sword along with their slain ones. <a id="chapter13_verse23"></a><b><sup>23 </sup></b>And the boundary of the sons of Reu′ben came to be the Jordan; and this as a territory was the inheritance of the sons of Reu′ben by their families, with the cities and their settlements.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter13_verse24"></a><b><sup>24 </sup></b>Furthermore, Moses made a gift to the tribe of Gad, the sons of Gad by their families, <a id="chapter13_verse25"></a><b><sup>25 </sup></b>and their territory came to be Ja′zer and all the cities of Gil′e·ad and half of the land of the sons of Am′mon as far as A·ro′er, which is in front of Rab′bah; <a id="chapter13_verse26"></a><b><sup>26 </sup></b>and from Hesh′bon to Ra′math-miz′peh and Bet′o·nim and from Ma·ha·na′im to the border of De′bir; <a id="chapter13_verse27"></a><b><sup>27 </sup></b>and in the low plain Beth-ha′ram and Beth-nim′rah and Suc′coth and Za′phon, the rest of the royal realm of Si′hon the king of Hesh′bon, the Jordan being the border as far as the extremity of the sea of Chin′ne·reth on the side of Jordan toward the east. <a id="chapter13_verse28"></a><b><sup>28 </sup></b>This was the inheritance of the sons <a id="page306"></a>of Gad by their families, with the cities and their settlements.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter13_verse29"></a><b><sup>29 </sup></b>Further, Moses made a gift to the half tribe of Ma·nas′seh, and it came to be that of the half tribe of the sons of Ma·nas′seh by their families. <a id="chapter13_verse30"></a><b><sup>30 </sup></b>And their territory came to be from Ma·ha·na′im all of Ba′shan, all the royal realm of Og the king of Ba′shan, and all the tent villages of Ja′ir that are in Ba′shan, sixty towns. <a id="chapter13_verse31"></a><b><sup>31 </sup></b>And half of Gil′e·ad, and Ash′ta·roth and Ed′re·i, the cities of the royal realm of Og in Ba′shan, went to the sons of Ma′chir the son of Ma·nas′seh, to half of the sons of Ma′chir by their families.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter13_verse32"></a><b><sup>32 </sup></b>These were what Moses caused them to inherit, on the desert plains of Mo′ab on the side of the Jordan, at Jer′i·cho, toward the east.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter13_verse33"></a><b><sup>33 </sup></b>And to the tribe of the Levites Moses did not give an inheritance. Jehovah the God of Israel is their inheritance, just as he has promised them.</p>
</body>
</html>
