<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="application/xhtml+xml; charset=utf-8" />
<title>Joshua 19</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/bi12.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
<p class="w_biblebookname">Joshua</p><p class="sb"><a id="chapter19"></a><a id="chapter19_verse1"></a><span class="w_ch"><b>19 </b></span>Then the second lot came out for Sim′e·on, for the tribe of the sons of Sim′e·on by their families. And their inheritance came to be in the midst of the inheritance of the sons of Judah. <a id="chapter19_verse2"></a><b><sup>2 </sup></b>And they came to have in their inheritance Be′er-she′ba with She′ba, and Mo·la′dah, <a id="chapter19_verse3"></a><b><sup>3 </sup></b>and Ha′zar-shu′al and Ba′lah and E′zem, <a id="chapter19_verse4"></a><b><sup>4 </sup></b>and El·to′lad and Be′thul and Hor′mah, <a id="chapter19_verse5"></a><b><sup>5 </sup></b>and Zik′lag and Beth-mar′ca·both and Ha′zar-su′sah, <a id="chapter19_verse6"></a><b><sup>6 </sup></b>and Beth-le·ba′oth and Sha·ru′hen; thirteen cities and their settlements. <a id="chapter19_verse7"></a><b><sup>7 </sup></b>A′in, Rim′mon and E′ther and A′shan; four cities and their settlements, <a id="chapter19_verse8"></a><b><sup>8 </sup></b>and all the settlements that were all around these cities as far as Ba′al·ath-be′er, Ra′mah of the south. This was the inheritance of the tribe of the sons of Sim′e·on by their families. <a id="chapter19_verse9"></a><b><sup>9 </sup></b>The inheritance of the sons of Sim′e·on was out of the allotment of the sons of Judah, because the share of the sons of Judah proved to be too large for them. So the sons of Sim′e·on got a possession in the midst of their inheritance.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter19_verse10"></a><b><sup>10 </sup></b>Next the third lot came up for the sons of Zeb′u·lun by their families, and the boundary of their inheritance came to be as far as Sa′rid. <a id="chapter19_verse11"></a><b><sup>11 </sup></b>And their boundary went up westward also to Mar′e·al and reached to Dab′be·sheth and reached to the torrent valley that is in front of Jok′ne·am. <a id="chapter19_verse12"></a><b><sup>12 </sup></b>And it went back from Sa′rid eastward toward the rising of the sun to the border of Chis′loth-ta′bor and went out to Dab′e·rath and went up to Ja·phi′a. <a id="chapter19_verse13"></a><b><sup>13 </sup></b>And from there it passed over eastward toward the sunrise to Gath-he′pher, to Eth-ka′zin, and went out to Rim′mon and was marked out to Ne′ah. <a id="chapter19_verse14"></a><b><sup>14 </sup></b>And the boundary went around it on the north to Han′na·thon, and its terminations proved to be at the valley of Iph′tah-el, <a id="chapter19_verse15"></a><b><sup>15 </sup></b>and Kat′tath and Na·hal′al and Shim′ron and I′da·lah and Beth′le·hem; twelve cities and their settlements. <a id="chapter19_verse16"></a><b><sup>16 </sup></b>This was the inheritance of the sons of Zeb′u·lun by their families. These were the cities and their settlements.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter19_verse17"></a><b><sup>17 </sup></b>It was for Is′sa·char that the fourth lot came out, for the sons of Is′sa·char by their families. <a id="chapter19_verse18"></a><b><sup>18 </sup></b>And their boundary came to be to Jez′re·el and Che·sul′loth and Shu′nem, <a id="chapter19_verse19"></a><b><sup>19 </sup></b>and Haph′a·ra′im and Shi′on and An·a·ha′rath, <a id="page313"></a><a id="chapter19_verse20"></a><b><sup>20 </sup></b>and Rab′bith and Kish′i·on and E′bez, <a id="chapter19_verse21"></a><b><sup>21 </sup></b>and Re′meth and En-gan′nim and En-had′dah and Beth-paz′zez. <a id="chapter19_verse22"></a><b><sup>22 </sup></b>And the boundary reached to Ta′bor and Sha·ha·zu′mah and Beth-she′mesh, and the terminations of their border proved to be at the Jordan; sixteen cities and their settlements. <a id="chapter19_verse23"></a><b><sup>23 </sup></b>This was the inheritance of the tribe of the sons of Is′sa·char by their families, the cities and their settlements.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter19_verse24"></a><b><sup>24 </sup></b>Then the fifth lot came out for the tribe of the sons of Ash′er by their families. <a id="chapter19_verse25"></a><b><sup>25 </sup></b>And their boundary came to be Hel′kath and Ha′li and Be′ten and Ach′shaph, <a id="chapter19_verse26"></a><b><sup>26 </sup></b>and Al·lam′me·lech and A′mad and Mi′shal. And it reached westward to Car′mel and to Shi′hor-lib′nath, <a id="chapter19_verse27"></a><b><sup>27 </sup></b>and it went back toward the rising of the sun to Beth-da′gon and reached to Zeb′u·lun and the valley of Iph′tah-el to the north, to Beth-e′mek and Ne·i′el, and it went out to Ca′bul on the left, <a id="chapter19_verse28"></a><b><sup>28 </sup></b>and to E′bron and Re′hob and Ham′mon and Ka′nah as far as populous Si′don. <a id="chapter19_verse29"></a><b><sup>29 </sup></b>And the boundary went back to Ra′mah and as far as the fortified city of Tyre. And the boundary went back to Ho′sah, and its terminations came to be at the sea in the region of Ach′zib, <a id="chapter19_verse30"></a><b><sup>30 </sup></b>and Um′mah and A′phek and Re′hob; twenty-two cities and their settlements. <a id="chapter19_verse31"></a><b><sup>31 </sup></b>This was the inheritance of the tribe of the sons of Ash′er by their families. These were the cities and their settlements.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter19_verse32"></a><b><sup>32 </sup></b>It was for the sons of Naph′ta·li that the sixth lot came out, for the sons of Naph′ta·li by their families. <a id="chapter19_verse33"></a><b><sup>33 </sup></b>And their boundary came to be from He′leph, from the big tree in Za·a·nan′nim, and Ad′a·mi-ne′keb and Jab′ne·el as far as Lak′kum; and its terminations came to be at the Jordan. <a id="chapter19_verse34"></a><b><sup>34 </sup></b>And the boundary went back westward to Az′noth-ta′bor and went out from there to Huk′kok and reached to Zeb′u·lun on the south, and to Ash′er it reached on the west and to Judah at the Jordan toward the rising of the sun. <a id="chapter19_verse35"></a><b><sup>35 </sup></b>And the fortified cities were Zid′dim, Zer and Ham′math, Rak′kath and Chin′ne·reth, <a id="chapter19_verse36"></a><b><sup>36 </sup></b>and Ad′a·mah and Ra′mah and Ha′zor, <a id="chapter19_verse37"></a><b><sup>37 </sup></b>and Ke′desh and Ed′re·i and En-ha′zor, <a id="chapter19_verse38"></a><b><sup>38 </sup></b>and Yi′ron and Mig′dal-el, Ho′rem and Beth-a′nath and Beth-she′mesh; nineteen cities and their settlements. <a id="chapter19_verse39"></a><b><sup>39 </sup></b>This was the inheritance of the tribe of the sons of Naph′ta·li by their families, the cities and their settlements.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter19_verse40"></a><b><sup>40 </sup></b>It was for the tribe of the sons of Dan by their families that the seventh lot came out. <a id="chapter19_verse41"></a><b><sup>41 </sup></b>And the border of their inheritance came to be Zo′rah and Esh′ta·ol and Ir-she′mesh, <a id="chapter19_verse42"></a><b><sup>42 </sup></b>and Sha·al·ab′bin and Ai′ja·lon and Ith′lah, <a id="chapter19_verse43"></a><b><sup>43 </sup></b>and E′lon and Tim′nah and Ek′ron, <a id="chapter19_verse44"></a><b><sup>44 </sup></b>and El′te·keh and Gib′be·thon and Ba′al·ath, <a id="chapter19_verse45"></a><b><sup>45 </sup></b>and Je′hud and Ben′e-be′rak and Gath-rim′mon, <a id="chapter19_verse46"></a><b><sup>46 </sup></b>and Me-jar′kon and Rak′kon, with the border in front of Jop′pa. <a id="chapter19_verse47"></a><b><sup>47 </sup></b>And the territory of the sons of Dan was too cramped for them. And the sons of Dan proceeded to go up and war against Le′shem and to capture it and strike it with the edge of the sword. Then they took possession of it and went dwelling in it, and they began to call Le′shem Dan, according to the name of Dan their forefather. <a id="chapter19_verse48"></a><b><sup>48 </sup></b>This was the inheritance of the tribe of the sons of Dan by their families. These were the cities and their settlements.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter19_verse49"></a><b><sup>49 </sup></b>Thus they finished dividing the land for a possession by its territories. Then the sons <a id="page314"></a>of Israel gave an inheritance to Joshua the son of Nun in their midst. <a id="chapter19_verse50"></a><b><sup>50 </sup></b>At the order of Jehovah they gave him the city for which he asked, namely, Tim′nath-se′rah, in the mountainous region of E′phra·im; and he began to build up the city and dwell in it.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter19_verse51"></a><b><sup>51 </sup></b>These were the inheritances that El·e·a′zar the priest and Joshua the son of Nun and the heads of the fathers of the tribes of the sons of Israel distributed as a possession by lot in Shi′loh before Jehovah, at the entrance of the tent of meeting. So they left off from apportioning the land.</p>
</body>
</html>
