<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="application/xhtml+xml; charset=utf-8" />
<title>Judges 5</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/bi12.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
<p class="w_biblebookname">Judges</p><p class="sb"><a id="chapter5"></a><a id="chapter5_verse1"></a><span class="w_ch"><b>5 </b></span>And on that day Deb′o·rah along with Ba′rak the son of A·bin′o·am broke out in song, saying:</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter5_verse2"></a> <b><sup>2 </sup></b>“For letting the hair hang loose in Israel for war,</p>
<p class="sz">For the people’s volunteering,</p>
<p class="sz">B<span class="smcap">LESS </span>Jehovah.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter5_verse3"></a> <b><sup>3 </sup></b>Listen, <span class="smcap">YOU </span>kings; give ear, <span class="smcap">YOU </span>high officials:</p>
<p class="sz">I to Jehovah, yes, I, will sing.</p>
<p class="sz">I shall make melody to Jehovah, Israel’s God.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter5_verse4"></a> <b><sup>4 </sup></b>Jehovah, at your going forth from Se′ir,</p>
<p class="sz">At your marching out of the field of E′dom,</p>
<p class="sp">Earth rocked, heavens also dripped,</p>
<p class="sz">Clouds also dripped with water.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter5_verse5"></a> <b><sup>5 </sup></b>Mountains flowed away from the face of Jehovah,</p>
<p class="sz">This Si′nai away from the face of Jehovah, Israel’s God.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter5_verse6"></a> <b><sup>6 </sup></b>In the days of Sham′gar the son of A′nath,</p>
<p class="sz">In the days of Ja′el, pathways had no traffic,</p>
<p class="sz">And the travelers of roadways would travel by roundabout pathways.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter5_verse7"></a> <b><sup>7 </sup></b>The dwellers in open country ceased, in Israel they ceased,</p>
<p class="sz">Until I, Deb′o·rah, rose up,</p>
<p class="sz">Until I rose up as a mother in Israel.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter5_verse8"></a> <b><sup>8 </sup></b>They proceeded to choose new gods.</p>
<p class="sz">It was then there was war in the gates.</p>
<p class="sp">A shield could not be seen, nor a lance,</p>
<p class="sz">Among forty thousand in Israel.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter5_verse9"></a> <b><sup>9 </sup></b>My heart is for the commanders of Israel,</p>
<p class="sz">Who were volunteers among the people.</p>
<p class="sz">B<span class="smcap">LESS </span>Jehovah.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter5_verse10"></a><b><sup>10 </sup></b>Y<span class="smcap">OU </span>riders on yellowish-red she-asses,</p>
<p class="sz">Y<span class="smcap">OU </span>who sit on rich carpets,</p>
<p class="sp">And <span class="smcap">YOU </span>who walk on the road,</p>
<p class="sz">Consider!</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter5_verse11"></a><b><sup>11 </sup></b>Some of the voices of the water distributors among the places of drawing water,</p>
<p class="sz">There they began to recount the righteous acts of Jehovah,</p>
<p class="sp">The righteous acts of his dwellers in open country in Israel.</p>
<p class="sz">It was then Jehovah’s people made their way down to the gates.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter5_verse12"></a><b><sup>12 </sup></b>Awake, awake, O Deb′o·rah;</p>
<p class="sz">Awake, awake, utter a song!</p>
<p class="sz">Rise up, Ba′rak, and lead your captives away, you son of A·bin′o·am!</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter5_verse13"></a><b><sup>13 </sup></b>It was then the survivors came down to the majestic ones;</p>
<p class="sz">Jehovah’s people came down to me against the mighty ones.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter5_verse14"></a><b><sup>14 </sup></b>Out of E′phra·im was their origin in the low plain,</p>
<p class="sz"><a id="page329"></a>With you, O Benjamin, among your peoples.</p>
<p class="sp">Out of Ma′chir the commanders went down,</p>
<p class="sz">And out of Zeb′u·lun those handling the equipment of a scribe.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter5_verse15"></a><b><sup>15 </sup></b>And the princes in Is′sa·char were with Deb′o·rah,</p>
<p class="sz">And as Is′sa·char, so was Ba′rak.</p>
<p class="sp">Into the low plain he was sent on foot.</p>
<p class="sz">Among the divisions of Reu′ben great were the searchings of the heart.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter5_verse16"></a><b><sup>16 </sup></b>Why did you sit down between the two saddlebags,</p>
<p class="sz">To listen to the pipings for the flocks?</p>
<p class="sz">For the divisions of Reu′ben there were great searchings of the heart.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter5_verse17"></a><b><sup>17 </sup></b>Gil′e·ad kept to his residence on the other side of the Jordan;</p>
<p class="sz">And Dan, why did he continue to dwell for the time in ships?</p>
<p class="sp">Ash′er sat idle at the seashore,</p>
<p class="sz">And by his landing places he kept residing.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter5_verse18"></a><b><sup>18 </sup></b>Zeb′u·lun was a people that scorned their souls to the point of death;</p>
<p class="sz">Naph′ta·li also, on the heights of the field.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter5_verse19"></a><b><sup>19 </sup></b>Kings came, they fought;</p>
<p class="sz">It was then that the kings of Ca′naan fought</p>
<p class="sp">In Ta′a·nach by the waters of Me·gid′do.</p>
<p class="sz">No gain of silver did they take.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter5_verse20"></a><b><sup>20 </sup></b>From heaven did the stars fight,</p>
<p class="sz">From their orbits they fought against Sis′e·ra.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter5_verse21"></a><b><sup>21 </sup></b>The torrent of Ki′shon washed them away,</p>
<p class="sz">The torrent of ancient days, the torrent of Ki′shon.</p>
<p class="sz">You went treading down strength, O my soul.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter5_verse22"></a><b><sup>22 </sup></b>It was then that the hoofs of horses pawed</p>
<p class="sz">Because of dashings upon dashings of his stallions.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter5_verse23"></a><b><sup>23 </sup></b>‘C<span class="smcap">URSE </span>Me′roz,’ said the angel of Jehovah,</p>
<p class="sz">‘C<span class="smcap">URSE </span>its inhabitants incessantly,</p>
<p class="sp">For they did not come to the assistance of Jehovah,</p>
<p class="sz">To the assistance of Jehovah with the mighty ones.’</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter5_verse24"></a><b><sup>24 </sup></b>Ja′el the wife of He′ber the Ken′ite will be most blessed among women,</p>
<p class="sz">Among women in the tent she will be most blessed.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter5_verse25"></a><b><sup>25 </sup></b>Water he asked, milk she gave;</p>
<p class="sz">In the large banquet bowl of majestic ones she presented curdled milk.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter5_verse26"></a><b><sup>26 </sup></b>Her hand to the tent pin she then thrust out,</p>
<p class="sz">And her right hand to the mallet of hard workers.</p>
<p class="sp">And she hammered Sis′e·ra, she pierced his head through,</p>
<p class="sz">And she broke apart and cut up his temples.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter5_verse27"></a><b><sup>27 </sup></b>Between her feet he collapsed, he fell, he lay down;</p>
<p class="sz">Between her feet he collapsed, he fell;</p>
<p class="sz">Where he collapsed, there he fell overcome.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter5_verse28"></a><b><sup>28 </sup></b>From the window a woman looked out and kept watching for him,</p>
<p class="sz">The mother of Sis′e·ra from the lattice,</p>
<p class="sp">‘Why has his war chariot delayed in coming?</p>
<p class="sz">Why must the hoofbeats of his chariots be so late?’</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter5_verse29"></a><b><sup>29 </sup></b>The wise ones of her noble ladies would answer her,</p>
<p class="sz">Yes, she too would talk <a id="page330"></a>back to herself with her own sayings,</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter5_verse30"></a><b><sup>30 </sup></b>‘Ought they not to find, ought they not to distribute spoil,</p>
<p class="sz">A womb—two wombs to every able-bodied man,</p>
<p class="sz">Spoil of dyed stuffs for Sis′e·ra, spoil of dyed stuffs,</p>
<p class="sp">An embroidered garment, dyed stuff, two embroidered garments</p>
<p class="sz">For the necks of men of spoil?’</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter5_verse31"></a><b><sup>31 </sup></b>Thus let all your enemies perish, O Jehovah,</p>
<p class="sz">And let your lovers be as when the sun goes forth in its mightiness.”</p>
<p class="sb">And the land had no further disturbance for forty years.</p>
</body>
</html>
