<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="application/xhtml+xml; charset=utf-8" />
<title>Judges 8</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/bi12.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
<p class="w_biblebookname">Judges</p><p class="sb"><a id="chapter8"></a><a id="chapter8_verse1"></a><span class="w_ch"><b>8 </b></span>Then the men of E′phra·im said to him: “What sort of thing is this that you have done to us in not calling us when you went to fight against Mid′i·an?” And they vehemently tried to pick a quarrel with him. <a id="chapter8_verse2"></a><b><sup>2 </sup></b>Finally he said to them: “What now have I done in comparison with <span class="smcap">YOU</span>? Are not the gleanings of E′phra·im better than the grape gathering of Abi-e′zer? <a id="chapter8_verse3"></a><b><sup>3 </sup></b>It was into <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>hand that God gave Mid′i·an’s princes O′reb and Ze′eb, and what have I been able to do in comparison with <span class="smcap">YOU</span>?” It was then that their spirit calmed down toward him when he spoke this word.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter8_verse4"></a><b><sup>4 </sup></b>Eventually Gid′e·on came to the Jordan, crossing it, he and the three hundred men that were with him, tired but keeping up the pursuit. <a id="chapter8_verse5"></a><b><sup>5 </sup></b>Later he said to the men of Suc′coth: “Please give round loaves of bread to the people that are following my steps, for they are tired and I am chasing after Ze′bah and Zal·mun′na, the kings of Mid′i·an.” <a id="chapter8_verse6"></a><b><sup>6 </sup></b>But the princes of Suc′coth said: “Are the palms of Ze′bah and of Zal·mun′na already in your hand so that bread has to be given to your army?” <a id="chapter8_verse7"></a><b><sup>7 </sup></b>At this Gid′e·on said: “That is why when Jehovah gives Ze′bah and Zal·mun′na into my hand, I shall certainly give <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>flesh a threshing with the thorns of the wilderness and the briers.” <a id="chapter8_verse8"></a><b><sup>8 </sup></b>And he continued on his way up from there to Pe·nu′el and went speaking to them in this same manner, but the men of Pe·nu′el answered him just as the men of Suc′coth had answered. <a id="chapter8_verse9"></a><b><sup>9 </sup></b>Hence he said also to the men of Pe·nu′el: “When I return in peace, I shall pull down this tower.”</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter8_verse10"></a><b><sup>10 </sup></b>Now Ze′bah and Zal·mun′na were in Kar′kor, and their camps with them, about fifteen thousand being all who were left over out of the entire camp of the Easterners; and those already fallen were a hundred and twenty thousand men who used to draw the sword. <a id="chapter8_verse11"></a><b><sup>11 </sup></b>And Gid′e·on continued on up by the way of those residing in tents to the east of No′bah and Jog′be·hah and began to strike the camp while the camp happened to be off guard. <a id="chapter8_verse12"></a><b><sup>12 </sup></b>When Ze′bah and Zal·mun′na took to flight, he at once went in pursuit of them and got to capture Mid′i·an’s two kings, Ze′bah and Zal·mun′na; and he drove all the camp into trembling.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter8_verse13"></a><b><sup>13 </sup></b>And Gid′e·on the son of Jo′ash began his return from the war by the pass that goes up to He′res. <a id="chapter8_verse14"></a><b><sup>14 </sup></b>En route he captured a young man of the men of Suc′coth and made inquiries of him. So he wrote out for him the names of the princes of Suc′coth and its older men, seventy-seven men. <a id="chapter8_verse15"></a><b><sup>15 </sup></b>With that he went to the men of Suc′coth and said: “Here are Ze′bah and Zal·mun′na respecting whom <span class="smcap">YOU </span>taunted me, saying, ‘Are the palms of Ze′bah and of Zal·mun′na already in your hand so that <a id="page335"></a>bread has to be given to your tired-out men?’” <a id="chapter8_verse16"></a><b><sup>16 </sup></b>Then he took the older men of the city and thorns of the wilderness and briers, and with them he put the men of Suc′coth through an experience. <a id="chapter8_verse17"></a><b><sup>17 </sup></b>And the tower of Pe·nu′el he pulled down, and he proceeded to kill the men of the city.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter8_verse18"></a><b><sup>18 </sup></b>He now said to Ze′bah and Zal·mun′na: “What sort of men were they whom <span class="smcap">YOU </span>killed in Ta′bor?” To this they said: “As you are, so were they, each one, like the sons of a king in form.” <a id="chapter8_verse19"></a><b><sup>19 </sup></b>At that he said: “They were my brothers, the sons of my mother. As Jehovah lives, if <span class="smcap">YOU </span>had preserved them alive, I would not have to kill <span class="smcap">YOU</span>.” <a id="chapter8_verse20"></a><b><sup>20 </sup></b>Then he said to Je′ther his firstborn: “Get up, kill them.” And the young man did not draw his sword, because he was afraid, for he was yet a young man. <a id="chapter8_verse21"></a><b><sup>21 </sup></b>So Ze′bah and Zal·mun′na said: “Get up yourself and assault us, for as a man is, so is his mightiness.” Accordingly Gid′e·on got up and killed Ze′bah and Zal·mun′na and took the moon-shaped ornaments that were on the necks of their camels.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter8_verse22"></a><b><sup>22 </sup></b>Later the men of Israel said to Gid′e·on: “Rule over us, you and your son and your grandson as well, for you have saved us out of the hand of Mid′i·an.” <a id="chapter8_verse23"></a><b><sup>23 </sup></b>But Gid′e·on said to them: “I myself shall not rule over <span class="smcap">YOU</span>, nor will my son rule over <span class="smcap">YOU</span>. Jehovah is the one who will rule over <span class="smcap">YOU</span>.” <a id="chapter8_verse24"></a><b><sup>24 </sup></b>And Gid′e·on went on to say to them: “Let me make a request of <span class="smcap">YOU</span>: Give me, each one of <span class="smcap">YOU</span>, the nose ring of his booty.” (For they had nose rings of gold, because they were Ish′ma·el·ites.) <a id="chapter8_verse25"></a><b><sup>25 </sup></b>Then they said: “We shall surely give them.” With that they spread out a mantle and went throwing each one the nose ring of his booty into it. <a id="chapter8_verse26"></a><b><sup>26 </sup></b>And the weight of the nose rings of gold that he had requested amounted to one thousand seven hundred gold shekels, besides the moon-shaped ornaments and the eardrops and the garments of wool dyed reddish purple that were upon the kings of Mid′i·an and besides the necklaces that were on the necks of the camels.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter8_verse27"></a><b><sup>27 </sup></b>And Gid′e·on proceeded to make it into an eph′od and to exhibit it in his city Oph′rah; and all Israel began to have immoral intercourse with it there, so that it served as a snare to Gid′e·on and to his household.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter8_verse28"></a><b><sup>28 </sup></b>Thus Mid′i·an was subdued before the sons of Israel, and they did not lift up their head anymore; and the land had no further disturbance for forty years in the days of Gid′e·on.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter8_verse29"></a><b><sup>29 </sup></b>And Jer·ub·ba′al the son of Jo′ash went his way and continued to dwell in his house.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter8_verse30"></a><b><sup>30 </sup></b>And Gid′e·on came to have seventy sons that issued out of his upper thigh, for he came to have many wives. <a id="chapter8_verse31"></a><b><sup>31 </sup></b>As for the concubine of his that was in She′chem, she too bore him a son. So he named him A·bim′e·lech. <a id="chapter8_verse32"></a><b><sup>32 </sup></b>Eventually Gid′e·on the son of Jo′ash died at a good old age and was buried in the burial place of Jo′ash his father in Oph′rah of the Abi-ez′rites.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter8_verse33"></a><b><sup>33 </sup></b>And it came about that as soon as Gid′e·on had died the sons of Israel again took up having immoral intercourse with the Ba′als, so that they appointed Ba′al-be′rith as their god. <a id="chapter8_verse34"></a><b><sup>34 </sup></b>And the sons of Israel did not remember Jehovah their God, who had delivered them out of the hand of all their enemies round about; <a id="chapter8_verse35"></a><b><sup>35 </sup></b>and they did not exercise loving-kindness toward the household of Jer·ub·ba′al, Gid′e·on, in return for all the goodness that he had exercised toward Israel.</p>
</body>
</html>
