<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="application/xhtml+xml; charset=utf-8" />
<title>Judges 12</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/bi12.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
<p class="w_biblebookname">Judges</p><p class="sb"><a id="chapter12"></a><a id="chapter12_verse1"></a><span class="w_ch"><b>12 </b></span>Then the men of E′phra·im were called together and crossed over northward and said to Jeph′thah: “Why is it that you crossed over to fight against the sons of Am′mon, and to us you did not issue a call to go with you? Your very house we shall burn over you with fire.” <a id="chapter12_verse2"></a><b><sup>2 </sup></b>But Jeph′thah said to them: “I became a special contender, I and my people, with the sons of Am′mon. And I proceeded to call to <span class="smcap">YOU </span>for aid, and <span class="smcap">YOU </span>did not save me out of their hand. <a id="chapter12_verse3"></a><b><sup>3 </sup></b>When I got to see that you were no savior, then I determined to put my soul in my own palm and go over against the sons of Am′mon. At that Jehovah gave them into my hand. So why have <span class="smcap">YOU </span>come up against me this day to fight against me?”</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter12_verse4"></a><b><sup>4 </sup></b>Immediately Jeph′thah collected all the men of Gil′e·ad together and fought E′phra·im; and the men of Gil′e·ad went striking E′phra·im down, for they had said: “Men escaped from E′phra·im is what <span class="smcap">YOU </span>are, O Gil′e·ad, inside of E′phra·im, inside of Ma·nas′seh.” <a id="chapter12_verse5"></a><b><sup>5 </sup></b>And Gil′e·ad got to capture the fords of the Jordan ahead of E′phra·im; and it occurred that when the escaping men of E′phra·im would say: “Let me pass over,” then the men of Gil′e·ad would say to each one: “Are you an E′phra·im·ite?” When he would say: “No!” <a id="chapter12_verse6"></a><b><sup>6 </sup></b>then they would say to him: “Please say Shib′bo·leth.” And he would say: “Sib′bo·leth,” as he was unable to say the word correctly. And they would lay hold of him and slay him at the fords of the Jordan. So there fell at that time forty-two thousand out of E′phra·im.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter12_verse7"></a><b><sup>7 </sup></b>And Jeph′thah continued to judge Israel for six years, after which Jeph′thah the Gil′e·ad·ite died and was buried in his city in Gil′e·ad.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter12_verse8"></a><b><sup>8 </sup></b>And Ib′zan from Beth′le·hem began to judge Israel after him. <a id="chapter12_verse9"></a><b><sup>9 </sup></b>And he came to have thirty sons and thirty daughters. He sent outside and brought in thirty daughters for his sons from outside. And he continued to judge Israel for seven years. <a id="chapter12_verse10"></a><b><sup>10 </sup></b>Then Ib′zan died and was buried in Beth′le·hem.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter12_verse11"></a><b><sup>11 </sup></b>And after him E′lon the Ze·bu′lu·nite began to judge Israel. And he continued to judge Israel ten years. <a id="chapter12_verse12"></a><b><sup>12 </sup></b>Then E′lon the Ze·bu′lu·nite died and was buried in Ai′ja·lon in the land of Zeb′u·lun.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter12_verse13"></a><b><sup>13 </sup></b>And after him Ab′don the son of Hil′lel the Pir′a·thon·ite began to judge Israel. <a id="chapter12_verse14"></a><b><sup>14 </sup></b>And he came to have forty sons and thirty grandsons who rode on seventy full-grown asses. And he continued to judge Israel eight years. <a id="chapter12_verse15"></a><b><sup>15 </sup></b>Then Ab′don the son of Hil′lel the Pir′a·thon·ite died and was buried in Pir′a·thon in the land of E′phra·im in the mountain of the A·mal′ek·ite.</p>
</body>
</html>
