<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="application/xhtml+xml; charset=utf-8" />
<title>1 Samuel 5</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/bi12.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
<p class="w_biblebookname">1 Samuel</p><p class="sb"><a id="chapter5"></a><a id="chapter5_verse1"></a><span class="w_ch"><b>5 </b></span>As for the Phi·lis′tines, they took the ark of the true God and then brought it from Eb·en·e′zer to Ash′dod. <a id="chapter5_verse2"></a><b><sup>2 </sup></b>And the Phi·lis′tines proceeded to take the ark of the true God and bring it into the house of Da′gon and station it beside Da′gon. <a id="chapter5_verse3"></a><b><sup>3 </sup></b>Then the Ash′dod·ites got up early the very next day, and there Da′gon was fallen upon his face to the earth before the ark of Jehovah. So they took Da′gon and returned him to his place. <a id="chapter5_verse4"></a><b><sup>4 </sup></b>When they got up early in the morning the very day after, there Da′gon was fallen upon his face to the earth before the ark of Jehovah, with the head of Da′gon and the palms of both his hands cut off, to the threshold. Only the fish part had been left upon him. <a id="chapter5_verse5"></a><b><sup>5 </sup></b>That is why the priests of Da′gon and all those going into the house of Da′gon do not tread upon the threshold of Da′gon in Ash′dod down to this day.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter5_verse6"></a><b><sup>6 </sup></b>And the hand of Jehovah came to be heavy upon the Ash′dod·ites, and he began causing panic and striking them with piles, namely, Ash′dod and its territories. <a id="chapter5_verse7"></a><b><sup>7 </sup></b>And the men of Ash′dod came to see that it was so, and they said: “Do not let the ark of the God of Israel dwell with us, because his hand has been hard against us and against Da′gon our god.” <a id="chapter5_verse8"></a><b><sup>8 </sup></b>Consequently they sent and gathered all the axis lords of the Phi·lis′tines to them and said: “What shall we do to the ark of the God of Israel?” Finally they said: “Toward Gath let the ark of the God of Israel go around.” So they brought the ark of the God of Israel around to there.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter5_verse9"></a><b><sup>9 </sup></b>And it came about that after they had brought it around to there, the hand of Jehovah came to be upon the city with a very great confusion, and he began striking the men of the city, from small to great, and piles began breaking out on them. <a id="chapter5_verse10"></a><b><sup>10 </sup></b>Hence they sent the ark of the true God to Ek′ron. And it came about that as soon as the ark of the true God came to Ek′ron, the Ek′ron·ites began to cry out, saying: “They have brought the ark of the God of Israel around to me to put me and my people to death!” <a id="chapter5_verse11"></a><b><sup>11 </sup></b>Consequently they sent and gathered all the axis lords of the Phi·lis′tines and said: “S<span class="smcap">END </span>the ark of the God of Israel away that it may return to its place and may not put me and my people to death.” For a death-dealing confusion had occurred in the whole city; the hand of the true <a id="page369"></a>God had been very heavy there, <a id="chapter5_verse12"></a><b><sup>12 </sup></b>and the men that did not die had been struck with piles. And the cry of the city for help kept ascending to the heavens.</p>
</body>
</html>
