<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="application/xhtml+xml; charset=utf-8" />
<title>1 Samuel 19</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/bi12.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
<p class="w_biblebookname">1 Samuel</p><p class="sb"><a id="chapter19"></a><a id="chapter19_verse1"></a><span class="w_ch"><b>19 </b></span>At length Saul spoke to Jon′a·than his son and to all his servants of putting David to death. <a id="chapter19_verse2"></a><b><sup>2 </sup></b>As for Jon′a·than, Saul’s son, he took great delight in David. So Jon′a·than told David, saying: “Saul my father is seeking to have you put to death. And now be on your guard, please, in the morning, and you must dwell in secrecy and keep yourself hidden. <a id="chapter19_verse3"></a><b><sup>3 </sup></b>And I, for my part, shall go out and certainly stand at the side of my father in the field where you will be, and I myself shall speak for you to my father, and I shall certainly see what will happen, and I shall be sure to tell you.”</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter19_verse4"></a><b><sup>4 </sup></b>Accordingly Jon′a·than spoke well of David to Saul his father and said to him: “Do not let the king sin against his servant David, for he has not sinned toward you and his works have been very good toward you. <a id="chapter19_verse5"></a><b><sup>5 </sup></b>And he proceeded to put his soul in his palm and strike the Phi·lis′tine down, so that Jehovah performed a great salvation for all Israel. You saw it, and you gave way to rejoicing. So why should you sin against innocent blood in having David put to death for nothing?” <a id="chapter19_verse6"></a><b><sup>6 </sup></b>Then Saul obeyed the voice of Jon′a·than, and Saul swore: “As Jehovah is living, he will not be put to death.” <a id="chapter19_verse7"></a><b><sup>7 </sup></b>Afterward Jon′a·than called David and Jon′a·than told him all these words. Then Jon′a·than brought David to Saul, and he continued before him the same as formerly.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter19_verse8"></a><b><sup>8 </sup></b>In time war broke out again and David went sallying forth and fighting against the Phi·lis′tines and striking them down with a great slaughter, and they took to flight from before him.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter19_verse9"></a><b><sup>9 </sup></b>And Jehovah’s bad spirit came to be upon Saul when he was sitting in his house with his spear in his hand, while David was playing music with his hand. <a id="chapter19_verse10"></a><b><sup>10 </sup></b>Consequently Saul sought to pin David to the wall with the spear, but he dodged from before Saul, so that he struck the spear into the wall. And David himself fled that he might escape during that night. <a id="chapter19_verse11"></a><b><sup>11 </sup></b>Later Saul sent messengers to David’s house to watch it and to have him put to death in the morning; but Mi′chal his wife told David, saying: “If you are not letting your soul escape tonight, tomorrow you will be a man put to death.” <a id="chapter19_verse12"></a><b><sup>12 </sup></b>Immediately Mi′chal had David descend through the window, that he might go and run away and escape. <a id="chapter19_verse13"></a><b><sup>13 </sup></b>Then Mi′chal took the teraphim image and placed it on the couch, and a net of goats’ hair she put at the place of his head, after which she covered it with a garment.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter19_verse14"></a><b><sup>14 </sup></b>Saul now sent messengers to take David, but she said: “He is sick.” <a id="chapter19_verse15"></a><b><sup>15 </sup></b>So Saul sent the messengers to see David, saying: “Bring him on his couch up to me to have him put to death.” <a id="chapter19_verse16"></a><b><sup>16 </sup></b>When the messengers came in, why, there was the teraphim image on the couch and a net of goats’ hair at the place of his head. <a id="chapter19_verse17"></a><b><sup>17 </sup></b>At this Saul said to Mi′chal: “Why did you trick me like this, so that you sent my enemy away that he might escape?” In turn Mi′chal said to Saul: “He himself said to me, ‘Send me away! Why should I put you to death?’”</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="page391"></a><a id="chapter19_verse18"></a><b><sup>18 </sup></b>As for David, he ran away and made his escape and got to come to Samuel at Ra′mah. And he proceeded to tell him all that Saul had done to him. Then he and Samuel went away, and they took up dwelling in Nai′oth. <a id="chapter19_verse19"></a><b><sup>19 </sup></b>In time the report got to Saul, saying: “Look! David is in Nai′oth in Ra′mah.” <a id="chapter19_verse20"></a><b><sup>20 </sup></b>At once Saul sent messengers to take David. When they got to see the elderly ones of the prophets prophesying, and Samuel standing in his position over them, the spirit of God came to be upon Saul’s messengers, and they began behaving like prophets, they also.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter19_verse21"></a><b><sup>21 </sup></b>When they told it to Saul, he immediately sent other messengers, and they began behaving like prophets, they also. So Saul sent messengers again, the third set, and they began behaving like prophets, they also. <a id="chapter19_verse22"></a><b><sup>22 </sup></b>Finally he too went to Ra′mah. When he got as far as the great cistern that is in Se′cu, he began to inquire and say: “Where are Samuel and David?” To this they said: “There in Nai′oth in Ra′mah.” <a id="chapter19_verse23"></a><b><sup>23 </sup></b>And he kept on his way from there to Nai′oth in Ra′mah, and the spirit of God came to be upon him, yes, him, and he went on walking and continued behaving like a prophet until he came into Nai′oth in Ra′mah. <a id="chapter19_verse24"></a><b><sup>24 </sup></b>And he also proceeded to strip off his garments and behave, he also, like a prophet before Samuel, and he lay fallen naked all that day and all that night. That is why they came to say: “Is Saul also among the prophets?”</p>
</body>
</html>
