<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="application/xhtml+xml; charset=utf-8" />
<title>1 Samuel 7</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/bi12.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
<p class="w_biblebookname">1 Samuel</p><p class="sb"><a id="chapter7"></a><a id="chapter7_verse1"></a><span class="w_ch"><b>7 </b></span>Accordingly the men of Kir′i·ath-je′a·rim came and brought the ark of Jehovah up and took it into the house of A·bin′a·dab on the hill, and El·e·a′zar his son was the one whom they sanctified to guard the ark of Jehovah.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter7_verse2"></a><b><sup>2 </sup></b>And it came about that from the day of the Ark’s dwelling in Kir′i·ath-je′a·rim the days kept multiplying, so that they amounted to twenty years, and all the house of Israel went lamenting after Jehovah. <a id="chapter7_verse3"></a><b><sup>3 </sup></b>And Samuel proceeded to say to all the house of Israel: “If it is with all <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>heart <span class="smcap">YOU </span>are returning to Jehovah, put away the foreign gods from <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>midst and also the Ash′to·reth images, and direct <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>heart unswervingly to Jehovah and serve him alone, and he will deliver <span class="smcap">YOU </span>from the hand of the Phi·lis′tines.” <a id="chapter7_verse4"></a><b><sup>4 </sup></b>At that the sons of Israel put away the Ba′als and the Ash′to·reth images and began serving Jehovah alone.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter7_verse5"></a><b><sup>5 </sup></b>Then Samuel said: “Collect all Israel together at Miz′pah, that I may pray in <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>behalf to Jehovah.” <a id="chapter7_verse6"></a><b><sup>6 </sup></b>So they were collected together at Miz′pah, and they went drawing water and pouring it out before Jehovah and kept a fast on that day. And they began saying there: “We have sinned against Jehovah.” And Samuel took up judging the sons of Israel in Miz′pah.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter7_verse7"></a><b><sup>7 </sup></b>And the Phi·lis′tines came to hear that the sons of Israel had collected themselves together at Miz′pah, and the axis lords of the Phi·lis′tines got on their way up against Israel. When the sons of Israel heard of it, they began to be afraid on account of the Phi·lis′tines. <a id="chapter7_verse8"></a><b><sup>8 </sup></b>So the sons of Israel said to Samuel: “Do not keep silent for our sakes from calling to Jehovah our God for aid, that he may save us from the hand of the Phi·lis′tines.” <a id="chapter7_verse9"></a><b><sup>9 </sup></b>Then Samuel took a sucking lamb and offered it up as a burnt offering, a whole offering, to Jehovah; and Samuel began calling to Jehovah for aid in behalf of Israel, and Jehovah proceeded to answer him. <a id="chapter7_verse10"></a><b><sup>10 </sup></b>And it came about that while Samuel was offering up the burnt offering, <a id="page371"></a>the Phi·lis′tines themselves drew near for battle against Israel. And Jehovah now caused it to thunder with a loud noise on that day against the Phi·lis′tines, that he might throw them into confusion; and they got defeated before Israel. <a id="chapter7_verse11"></a><b><sup>11 </sup></b>At that the men of Israel sallied forth from Miz′pah and went in pursuit of the Phi·lis′tines and kept striking them down as far as south of Beth-car. <a id="chapter7_verse12"></a><b><sup>12 </sup></b>Then Samuel took a stone and set it between Miz′pah and Jesh′a·nah and began to call its name Eb·en·e′zer. Accordingly he said: “Till now Jehovah has helped us.” <a id="chapter7_verse13"></a><b><sup>13 </sup></b>Thus the Phi·lis′tines were subdued, and they did not come anymore into the territory of Israel; and the hand of Jehovah continued to be against the Phi·lis′tines all the days of Samuel. <a id="chapter7_verse14"></a><b><sup>14 </sup></b>And the cities that the Phi·lis′tines had taken from Israel kept coming back to Israel from Ek′ron to Gath, and the territory of them Israel delivered from the hand of the Phi·lis′tines.</p>
<p class="sb">And there came to be peace between Israel and the Am′or·ites.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter7_verse15"></a><b><sup>15 </sup></b>And Samuel kept on judging Israel all the days of his life. <a id="chapter7_verse16"></a><b><sup>16 </sup></b>And he traveled from year to year and made the circuit of Beth′el and Gil′gal and Miz′pah and judged Israel at all these places. <a id="chapter7_verse17"></a><b><sup>17 </sup></b>But his return was to Ra′mah, because there was where his house was, and there he judged Israel. And he proceeded to build an altar there to Jehovah.</p>
</body>
</html>
