<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="application/xhtml+xml; charset=utf-8" />
<title>1 Samuel 12</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/bi12.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
<p class="w_biblebookname">1 Samuel</p><p class="sb"><a id="chapter12"></a><a id="chapter12_verse1"></a><span class="w_ch"><b>12 </b></span>Finally Samuel said to all Israel: “Here I have listened to <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>voice as respects all that <span class="smcap">YOU </span>have said to me, that I should cause a king to reign over <span class="smcap">YOU</span>. <a id="chapter12_verse2"></a><b><sup>2 </sup></b>And now here is the king walking before <span class="smcap">YOU</span>! As for me, I have grown old and gray, and my sons, here they are with <span class="smcap">YOU</span>, and I—I have walked before <span class="smcap">YOU </span>from my youth until this day. <a id="chapter12_verse3"></a><b><sup>3 </sup></b>Here I am. Answer against me in front of Jehovah and in front of his anointed one: Whose bull have I taken or whose ass have I taken or whom have I defrauded or whom have I crushed or from whose hand have I accepted hush money that I should hide my eyes with it? And I shall make restoration to <span class="smcap">YOU </span>people.” <a id="chapter12_verse4"></a><b><sup>4 </sup></b>To this they said: “You have not defrauded us, nor have you crushed us, nor have you accepted anything at all from the hand of a single one.” <a id="chapter12_verse5"></a><b><sup>5 </sup></b>So he said to them: “Jehovah is a witness against <span class="smcap">YOU</span>, and his anointed one is a witness this day that <span class="smcap">YOU </span>have found nothing at all in my hand.” To this they said: “He is a witness.”</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter12_verse6"></a><b><sup>6 </sup></b>And Samuel went on to say to the people: “Jehovah is a witness, who used Moses and Aaron and who brought <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>forefathers up out of the land of Egypt. <a id="chapter12_verse7"></a><b><sup>7 </sup></b>And now take <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>stand, and I will judge <span class="smcap">YOU </span>before Jehovah and recount to <span class="smcap">YOU </span>all the righteous acts of Jehovah that he has done with <span class="smcap">YOU </span>and with <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>forefathers.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter12_verse8"></a><b><sup>8 </sup></b>“As soon as Jacob had come into Egypt and <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>forefathers began calling to Jehovah for aid, Jehovah proceeded to send Moses and Aaron, that they might lead <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>forefathers out from Egypt and cause them to dwell in this place. <a id="chapter12_verse9"></a><b><sup>9 </sup></b>And <a id="page377"></a>they went forgetting Jehovah their God, so that he sold them into the hand of Sis′e·ra the chief of the army of Ha′zor and into the hand of the Phi·lis′tines and into the hand of the king of Mo′ab, and they kept fighting against them. <a id="chapter12_verse10"></a><b><sup>10 </sup></b>And they began to call to Jehovah for aid and say, ‘We have sinned, for we have left Jehovah that we might serve the Ba′als and the Ash′to·reth images; and now deliver us out of the hand of our enemies, that we may serve you.’ <a id="chapter12_verse11"></a><b><sup>11 </sup></b>And Jehovah proceeded to send Jer·ub·ba′al and Be′dan and Jeph′thah and Samuel and deliver <span class="smcap">YOU </span>out of the hand of <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>enemies all around, that <span class="smcap">YOU </span>might dwell in security. <a id="chapter12_verse12"></a><b><sup>12 </sup></b>When <span class="smcap">YOU </span>saw that Na′hash the king of the sons of Am′mon had come against <span class="smcap">YOU</span>, <span class="smcap">YOU </span>kept saying to me, ‘No, but a king is what should reign over us!’ all the while Jehovah <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>God being <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>King. <a id="chapter12_verse13"></a><b><sup>13 </sup></b>And now here is the king whom <span class="smcap">YOU </span>have chosen, for whom <span class="smcap">YOU </span>asked; and here Jehovah has put over <span class="smcap">YOU </span>a king. <a id="chapter12_verse14"></a><b><sup>14 </sup></b>If <span class="smcap">YOU </span>will fear Jehovah and actually serve him and obey his voice, and <span class="smcap">YOU </span>will not rebel against the order of Jehovah, both <span class="smcap">YOU </span>and the king who must reign over <span class="smcap">YOU </span>will certainly prove to be followers of Jehovah <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>God. <a id="chapter12_verse15"></a><b><sup>15 </sup></b>But if <span class="smcap">YOU </span>will not obey the voice of Jehovah and <span class="smcap">YOU </span>will actually rebel against the order of Jehovah, the hand of Jehovah will certainly prove to be against <span class="smcap">YOU </span>and <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>fathers. <a id="chapter12_verse16"></a><b><sup>16 </sup></b>Now, also, take <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>stand and see this great thing that Jehovah is doing before <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>eyes. <a id="chapter12_verse17"></a><b><sup>17 </sup></b>Is it not wheat harvest today? I shall call to Jehovah that he may give thunders and rain; then know and see that <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>evil is abundant that <span class="smcap">YOU </span>have done in the eyes of Jehovah in asking for yourselves a king.”</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter12_verse18"></a><b><sup>18 </sup></b>Upon that Samuel called to Jehovah, and Jehovah proceeded to give thunders and rain on that day, so that all the people were greatly in fear of Jehovah and of Samuel. <a id="chapter12_verse19"></a><b><sup>19 </sup></b>And all the people began to say to Samuel: “Pray in behalf of your servants to Jehovah your God, as we do not want to die; because we have added to all our sins an evil in asking for ourselves a king.”</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter12_verse20"></a><b><sup>20 </sup></b>So Samuel said to the people: “Do not be afraid. Y<span class="smcap">OU</span>—<span class="smcap">YOU </span>have done all this evil. Only do not turn aside from following Jehovah, and <span class="smcap">YOU </span>must serve Jehovah with all <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>heart. <a id="chapter12_verse21"></a><b><sup>21 </sup></b>And <span class="smcap">YOU </span>must not turn aside to follow the unrealities that are of no benefit and that do not deliver, because they are unrealities. <a id="chapter12_verse22"></a><b><sup>22 </sup></b>For Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name, because Jehovah has taken it upon himself to make <span class="smcap">YOU </span>his people. <a id="chapter12_verse23"></a><b><sup>23 </sup></b>As for me also, it is unthinkable, on my part, to sin against Jehovah by ceasing to pray in <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>behalf; and I must instruct <span class="smcap">YOU </span>in the good and right way. <a id="chapter12_verse24"></a><b><sup>24 </sup></b>Only fear Jehovah, and <span class="smcap">YOU </span>must serve him in truth with all <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>heart; for see what great things he has done for <span class="smcap">YOU</span>. <a id="chapter12_verse25"></a><b><sup>25 </sup></b>But if <span class="smcap">YOU </span>flagrantly do what is bad, <span class="smcap">YOU </span>will be swept away, both <span class="smcap">YOU </span>and <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>king.”</p>
</body>
</html>
