<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="application/xhtml+xml; charset=utf-8" />
<title>2 Samuel 13</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/bi12.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
<p class="w_biblebookname">2 Samuel</p><p class="sb"><a id="chapter13"></a><a id="chapter13_verse1"></a><span class="w_ch"><b>13 </b></span>And it came about after such things that Ab′sa·lom the son of David had a beautiful sister whose name was Ta′mar, and Am′non the son of David fell in love with her. <a id="chapter13_verse2"></a><b><sup>2 </sup></b>And it was so distressing to Am′non that he felt sick on account of Ta′mar his sister, because she was a virgin, and it was difficult in the eyes of Am′non to do anything at all to her. <a id="chapter13_verse3"></a><b><sup>3 </sup></b>Now Am′non had a companion whose name was Je·hon′a·dab, the son of Shim′e·ah, David’s brother; and Je·hon′a·dab was a very wise man. <a id="chapter13_verse4"></a><b><sup>4 </sup></b>So he said to him: “Why are you, the son of the king, so downcast as this, morning by morning? Will you not tell me?” At this Am′non said <a id="page425"></a>to him: “With Ta′mar the sister of Ab′sa·lom my brother I am in love.” <a id="chapter13_verse5"></a><b><sup>5 </sup></b>Upon that Je·hon′a·dab said to him: “Lie down on your bed and play sick. And your father will certainly come to see you, and you must say to him, ‘Please, let Ta′mar my sister come in and give me bread as a patient, and she will have to make the bread of consolation under my eyes in order that I may see it, and I shall have to eat from her hand.’”</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter13_verse6"></a><b><sup>6 </sup></b>Accordingly Am′non lay down and played sick, and so the king came in to see him. Then Am′non said to the king: “Please, let Ta′mar my sister come in and bake two heart-shaped cakes under my eyes, that I may take bread as a patient from her hand.” <a id="chapter13_verse7"></a><b><sup>7 </sup></b>At that David sent to Ta′mar at the house, saying: “Go, please, to the house of Am′non your brother and make the bread of consolation for him.” <a id="chapter13_verse8"></a><b><sup>8 </sup></b>So Ta′mar went to the house of Am′non her brother while he was lying down. Then she took the flour dough and kneaded it and made the cakes under his eyes and cooked the heart-shaped cakes. <a id="chapter13_verse9"></a><b><sup>9 </sup></b>Finally she took the deep pan and poured it out before him, but Am′non refused to eat and said: “H<span class="smcap">AVE </span>everybody go out from me!” Then everybody went out from him.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter13_verse10"></a><b><sup>10 </sup></b>Am′non now said to Ta′mar: “Bring the bread of consolation to the interior room, that I may take it as a patient from your hand.” So Ta′mar took the heart-shaped cakes that she had made and brought them in to Am′non her brother in the interior room. <a id="chapter13_verse11"></a><b><sup>11 </sup></b>When she came near to him for him to eat, he at once grabbed hold of her and said to her: “Come, lie down with me, my sister.” <a id="chapter13_verse12"></a><b><sup>12 </sup></b>However, she said to him: “No, my brother! Do not humiliate me; for it is not usual to do that way in Israel. Do not do this disgraceful folly. <a id="chapter13_verse13"></a><b><sup>13 </sup></b>And I—where shall I cause my reproach to go? And you—you will become like one of the senseless men in Israel. And now speak, please, to the king; for he will not withhold me from you.” <a id="chapter13_verse14"></a><b><sup>14 </sup></b>And he did not consent to listen to her voice, but used strength superior to hers and humiliated her and lay down with her. <a id="chapter13_verse15"></a><b><sup>15 </sup></b>And Am′non began hating her with a very great hatred, because the hatred with which he hated her was greater than the love with which he had loved her, so that Am′non said to her: “Get up, go away!” <a id="chapter13_verse16"></a><b><sup>16 </sup></b>At this she said to him: “No, my brother; for this badness in sending me away is greater than the other that you have done with me!” And he did not consent to listen to her.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter13_verse17"></a><b><sup>17 </sup></b>With that he called his attendant who waited upon him and said: “Send this person away from me, please, to the outside, and lock the door behind her.” <a id="chapter13_verse18"></a><b><sup>18 </sup></b>(Now upon her there was a striped robe; for that was the way the daughters of the king, the virgins, used to dress with sleeveless coats.) So his waiter proceeded to lead her clear outside, and he locked the door behind her. <a id="chapter13_verse19"></a><b><sup>19 </sup></b>Then Ta′mar placed ashes upon her head, and the striped robe that was upon her she ripped apart; and she kept her hands put upon her head and went walking away, crying out as she walked.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter13_verse20"></a><b><sup>20 </sup></b>At this Ab′sa·lom her brother said to her: “Was it Am′non your brother that happened to be with you? And now, my sister, keep silent. He is your brother. Do not set your heart on this matter.” And Ta′mar began to dwell, while being kept from association with others, at the house of Ab′sa·lom her brother. <a id="chapter13_verse21"></a><b><sup>21 </sup></b>And King David himself <a id="page426"></a>heard about all these things, and he became very angry. <a id="chapter13_verse22"></a><b><sup>22 </sup></b>And Ab′sa·lom did not speak with Am′non either bad or good; for Ab′sa·lom hated Am′non over the fact that he had humiliated Ta′mar his sister.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter13_verse23"></a><b><sup>23 </sup></b>And it turned out after two full years that Ab′sa·lom came to have sheepshearers at Ba′al-ha′zor, which is close by E′phra·im; and Ab′sa·lom proceeded to invite all the sons of the king. <a id="chapter13_verse24"></a><b><sup>24 </sup></b>So Ab′sa·lom came in to the king and said: “Here, now, your servant has sheepshearers! Let the king go, please, and also his servants, with your servant.” <a id="chapter13_verse25"></a><b><sup>25 </sup></b>But the king said to Ab′sa·lom: “No, my son! Do not let all of us go, please, that we may not be a burden upon you.” Although he kept urging him, he did not consent to go but blessed him. <a id="chapter13_verse26"></a><b><sup>26 </sup></b>Finally Ab′sa·lom said: “If not you, let Am′non my brother go with us, please.” At this the king said to him: “Why should he go with you?” <a id="chapter13_verse27"></a><b><sup>27 </sup></b>And Ab′sa·lom began to urge him, so that he sent Am′non and all the sons of the king with him.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter13_verse28"></a><b><sup>28 </sup></b>Then Ab′sa·lom commanded his attendants, saying: “See, please, that just as soon as Am′non’s heart is in a merry mood with wine, and I shall certainly say to <span class="smcap">YOU</span>, ‘Strike down Am′non!’ <span class="smcap">YOU </span>must then put him to death. Do not be afraid. Have not I myself commanded <span class="smcap">YOU</span>? Be strong and prove yourselves to be valiant men.” <a id="chapter13_verse29"></a><b><sup>29 </sup></b>And Ab′sa·lom’s attendants proceeded to do to Am′non just as Ab′sa·lom had commanded; and all the other sons of the king began to rise up and mount each one his mule and take to flight. <a id="chapter13_verse30"></a><b><sup>30 </sup></b>And it came about that, while they were on the way, the report itself came to David, saying: “Ab′sa·lom has struck down all the sons of the king, and not one of them has been left over.” <a id="chapter13_verse31"></a><b><sup>31 </sup></b>At this the king got up and ripped his clothes apart and lay upon the earth, and all his servants were standing by with their garments ripped apart.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter13_verse32"></a><b><sup>32 </sup></b>However, Je·hon′a·dab the son of Shim′e·ah, David’s brother, answered and said: “Do not let my lord think that it is all the young men the sons of the king that they have put to death, for it is Am′non alone that has died, because at the order of Ab′sa·lom it has occurred as something appointed from the day that he humiliated Ta′mar his sister. <a id="chapter13_verse33"></a><b><sup>33 </sup></b>And now do not let my lord the king take to his heart the word, saying, ‘All the king’s sons themselves have died’; but it is Am′non alone that has died.”</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter13_verse34"></a><b><sup>34 </sup></b>Meantime, Ab′sa·lom went running away. Later the young man, the watchman, raised his eyes and saw, and, look! there were many people coming from the road behind him by the mountainside. <a id="chapter13_verse35"></a><b><sup>35 </sup></b>At this Je·hon′a·dab said to the king: “Look! The king’s sons themselves have come in. In accord with the word of your servant so it has taken place.” <a id="chapter13_verse36"></a><b><sup>36 </sup></b>And it came about that, as soon as he finished speaking, here the king’s sons themselves came in, and they began to raise their voice and weep; and even the king and all his servants wept with a very great weeping. <a id="chapter13_verse37"></a><b><sup>37 </sup></b>As for Ab′sa·lom, he ran off that he might go to Tal′mai the son of Am·mi′hud the king of Gesh′ur. And David continued to mourn over his son all the days. <a id="chapter13_verse38"></a><b><sup>38 </sup></b>As for Ab′sa·lom, he ran off and made his way to Gesh′ur; and he came to be there three years.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter13_verse39"></a><b><sup>39 </sup></b>Finally the soul of David the king longed to go out to Ab′sa·lom; for he had comforted himself concerning Am′non, because he was dead.</p>
</body>
</html>
