<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="application/xhtml+xml; charset=utf-8" />
<title>2 Samuel 18</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/bi12.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
<p class="w_biblebookname">2 Samuel</p><p class="sb"><a id="chapter18"></a><a id="chapter18_verse1"></a><span class="w_ch"><b>18 </b></span>And David proceeded to number the people that were with him and to place over them chiefs of thousands and chiefs of hundreds. <a id="chapter18_verse2"></a><b><sup>2 </sup></b>Further, David sent one third of the people under the hand of Jo′ab and one third under the hand of A·bish′ai the son of Ze·ru′iah, Jo′ab’s brother, and one third under the hand of It′tai the Git′tite. Then the king said to the people: “I myself also shall without fail go out with <span class="smcap">YOU</span>.” <a id="chapter18_verse3"></a><b><sup>3 </sup></b>But the people said: “You must not go out, for if we should at all flee, they would not set heart upon us; and if half of us would die, they would not set heart upon us, because you are worth ten thousand of us; and now it would be better if you would be of service to us to give help from the city.” <a id="chapter18_verse4"></a><b><sup>4 </sup></b>So the king said to them: “Whatever seems good in <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>eyes I shall do.” And the king kept standing at the side of the gate, and all the people themselves went out by hundreds and by thousands. <a id="chapter18_verse5"></a><b><sup>5 </sup></b>And the king went on to command Jo′ab and A·bish′ai and It′tai, saying: “Deal gently for my sake with the young man Ab′sa·lom.” And all the people themselves heard when the king commanded all the chiefs over the matter of Ab′sa·lom.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter18_verse6"></a><b><sup>6 </sup></b>And the people continued on their way out to the field to meet Israel; and the battle came to be in the forest of E′phra·im. <a id="chapter18_verse7"></a><b><sup>7 </sup></b>Finally the people of Israel were defeated there before the servants of David, and the slaughter there turned out to be great on that day, of twenty thousand men. <a id="chapter18_verse8"></a><b><sup>8 </sup></b>And the battle there got to be spread out over all the land that was in sight. Furthermore, the forest did more in eating up the people than the sword did in eating them up on that day.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter18_verse9"></a><b><sup>9 </sup></b>Eventually Ab′sa·lom found himself before the servants of David. And Ab′sa·lom was riding upon a mule, and the mule got to come under the network of boughs of a massive big tree, so that his head got caught fast in the big tree, and he was taken up between the heavens and the earth, as the mule itself that was under him passed along. <a id="chapter18_verse10"></a><b><sup>10 </sup></b>Then a certain man saw it and told Jo′ab and said: “Look! I have seen Ab′sa·lom hung in a big tree.” <a id="chapter18_verse11"></a><b><sup>11 </sup></b>At this Jo′ab said to the man who was telling him: “And here you saw it, and why did you not strike him down to the earth there? Then it would have been my obligation to give you ten pieces of silver and a belt.” <a id="chapter18_verse12"></a><b><sup>12 </sup></b>But the man said to Jo′ab: “And although I were weighing upon my palms a thousand pieces of silver, I should not thrust my hand out against the king’s son; for in our hearing it was that the king commanded you and A·bish′ai and It′tai, saying, ‘W<span class="smcap">ATCH</span>, whoever you are, over the young man, over Ab′sa·lom.’ <a id="chapter18_verse13"></a><b><sup>13 </sup></b>Otherwise I should have dealt treacherously against his soul and the whole matter itself would not be hidden from the king, and you yourself would take a position off on the side.” <a id="chapter18_verse14"></a><b><sup>14 </sup></b>To this Jo′ab said: “Let me not hold myself up this way before you!” With that he took three shafts in his palm and proceeded <a id="page435"></a>to drive them through the heart of Ab′sa·lom while he was yet alive in the heart of the big tree. <a id="chapter18_verse15"></a><b><sup>15 </sup></b>Then ten attendants carrying Jo′ab’s weapons came around and struck Ab′sa·lom, that they might put him to death. <a id="chapter18_verse16"></a><b><sup>16 </sup></b>Jo′ab now blew the horn, that the people might return from chasing after Israel; for Jo′ab had held back the people. <a id="chapter18_verse17"></a><b><sup>17 </sup></b>Finally they took Ab′sa·lom and pitched him in the forest into a big hollow and raised up over him a very big pile of stones. As for all Israel, they fled each man to his home.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter18_verse18"></a><b><sup>18 </sup></b>Now Ab′sa·lom himself, while he was alive, had taken and proceeded to raise up for himself a pillar, which is in the Low Plain of the King, for he said: “I have no son in order to keep my name in remembrance.” So he called the pillar by his own name, and it continues to be called Ab′sa·lom’s Monument down to this day.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter18_verse19"></a><b><sup>19 </sup></b>Now as regards A·him′a·az the son of Za′dok, he said: “Let me run, please, and break the news to the king, because Jehovah has judged him to free him from the hand of his enemies.” <a id="chapter18_verse20"></a><b><sup>20 </sup></b>But Jo′ab said to him: “You are not a man of news this day, and you must break the news on another day; but this day you must not break the news, for the very reason that the king’s own son has died.” <a id="chapter18_verse21"></a><b><sup>21 </sup></b>Then Jo′ab said to the Cush′ite: “Go, tell the king what you have seen.” At that the Cush′ite bowed to Jo′ab and began to run. <a id="chapter18_verse22"></a><b><sup>22 </sup></b>A·him′a·az the son of Za′dok now said once again to Jo′ab: “Let, now, happen whatever will, let me also myself, please, run behind the Cush′ite.” However, Jo′ab said: “Why is it that you yourself have to run, my son, when there is no news being found for you?” <a id="chapter18_verse23"></a><b><sup>23 </sup></b>Still he said: “Let, now, happen whatever will, let me run.” So he said to him: “Run!” And A·him′a·az began to run by the way of the District, and he eventually passed by the Cush′ite.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter18_verse24"></a><b><sup>24 </sup></b>Now David was sitting between the two gates. Meantime, the watchman went to the roof of the gate by the wall. At length he raised his eyes and saw and, look! there was a man running by himself. <a id="chapter18_verse25"></a><b><sup>25 </sup></b>So the watchman called and told the king, at which the king said: “If he is by himself, there is news in his mouth.” And he kept coming, steadily getting nearer. <a id="chapter18_verse26"></a><b><sup>26 </sup></b>The watchman now saw another man running. The watchman therefore called to the gatekeeper and said: “Look! Another man running by himself!” at which the king said: “This one also is a news bearer.” <a id="chapter18_verse27"></a><b><sup>27 </sup></b>And the watchman went on to say: “I am seeing that the running style of the first is like the running style of A·him′a·az the son of Za′dok,” at which the king said: “This is a good man, and with good news he should come.” <a id="chapter18_verse28"></a><b><sup>28 </sup></b>Eventually A·him′a·az called and said to the king: “It is well!” With that he bowed to the king with his face to the earth. And he went on to say: “Blessed be Jehovah your God, who has surrendered the men that lifted up their hand against my lord the king!”</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter18_verse29"></a><b><sup>29 </sup></b>However, the king said: “Is it well with the young man Ab′sa·lom?” To this A·him′a·az said: “I saw the great commotion at the time Jo′ab sent the king’s servant and your servant, and I did not know what it was.” <a id="chapter18_verse30"></a><b><sup>30 </sup></b>So the king said: “Step aside, take your position here.” At that he stepped aside and kept standing still.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter18_verse31"></a><b><sup>31 </sup></b>And here was the Cush′ite coming in, and the Cush′ite began to say: “Let my lord the king accept news, for Jehovah has judged you today to free you from the hand of all those rising up <a id="page436"></a>against you.” <a id="chapter18_verse32"></a><b><sup>32 </sup></b>But the king said to the Cush′ite: “Is it well with the young man Ab′sa·lom?” To this the Cush′ite said: “May the enemies of my lord the king and all those who rose up against you for evil become as the young man.”</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter18_verse33"></a><b><sup>33 </sup></b>Then the king became disturbed and went up to the roof chamber over the gateway and gave way to weeping; and this is what he said as he walked: “My son Ab′sa·lom, my son, my son Ab′sa·lom! O that I might have died, I myself, instead of you, Ab′sa·lom my son, my son!”</p>
</body>
</html>
