<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="application/xhtml+xml; charset=utf-8" />
<title>2 Samuel 8</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/bi12.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
<p class="w_biblebookname">2 Samuel</p><p class="sb"><a id="chapter8"></a><a id="chapter8_verse1"></a><span class="w_ch"><b>8 </b></span>And it came about afterward that David proceeded to strike the Phi·lis′tines down and subdue them, and David got to take Meth′eg-am′mah out of the hand of the Phi·lis′tines.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter8_verse2"></a><b><sup>2 </sup></b>And he went on to strike down the Mo′ab·ites and measure them with a line, making them lie down on the earth, that he might measure two lines to put them to death, and a full line to preserve them alive; and the Mo′ab·ites came to be David’s servants to carry tribute.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter8_verse3"></a><b><sup>3 </sup></b>And David went on to strike down Had·ad·e′zer the son of Re′hob the king of Zo′bah as he was going his way to put his control back again at the river Eu·phra′tes. <a id="chapter8_verse4"></a><b><sup>4 </sup></b>And David got to capture from him one thousand seven hundred horsemen and twenty thousand men on foot; and David proceeded to hamstring all the chariot horses, <a id="page419"></a>but he let a hundred chariot horses of them remain.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter8_verse5"></a><b><sup>5 </sup></b>When Syria of Damascus came to help Had·ad·e′zer the king of Zo′bah, David then struck down among the Syrians twenty-two thousand men. <a id="chapter8_verse6"></a><b><sup>6 </sup></b>Further, David put garrisons in Syria of Damascus; and the Syrians came to be David’s servants to carry tribute. And Jehovah continued to save David wherever he went. <a id="chapter8_verse7"></a><b><sup>7 </sup></b>Moreover, David took the circular shields of gold that happened to be on the servants of Had·ad·e′zer and brought them to Jerusalem. <a id="chapter8_verse8"></a><b><sup>8 </sup></b>And from Be′tah and Be·ro′thai, cities of Had·ad·e′zer, King David took copper in very great quantity.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter8_verse9"></a><b><sup>9 </sup></b>Now To′i the king of Ha′math got to hear that David had struck down all the military force of Had·ad·e′zer. <a id="chapter8_verse10"></a><b><sup>10 </sup></b>So To′i sent Jo′ram his son to King David to ask him about his welfare and congratulate him over the fact that he had fought against Had·ad·e′zer so that he struck him down (for Had·ad·e′zer had become trained in warfare against To′i); and in his hand there proved to be articles of silver and articles of gold and articles of copper. <a id="chapter8_verse11"></a><b><sup>11 </sup></b>These also King David sanctified to Jehovah, together with the silver and the gold that he had sanctified from all the nations that he had subdued, <a id="chapter8_verse12"></a><b><sup>12 </sup></b>from Syria and from Mo′ab and from the sons of Am′mon and from the Phi·lis′tines and from Am′a·lek and from the spoil of Had·ad·e′zer the son of Re′hob the king of Zo′bah. <a id="chapter8_verse13"></a><b><sup>13 </sup></b>And David proceeded to make a name when he came back from striking down the E′dom·ites in the Valley of Salt—eighteen thousand. <a id="chapter8_verse14"></a><b><sup>14 </sup></b>And he kept garrisons placed in E′dom. In all E′dom he placed garrisons, and all the E′dom·ites came to be servants of David; and Jehovah kept saving David wherever he went.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter8_verse15"></a><b><sup>15 </sup></b>And David kept reigning over all Israel; and David was continually rendering judicial decision and righteousness for all his people. <a id="chapter8_verse16"></a><b><sup>16 </sup></b>And Jo′ab the son of Ze·ru′iah was over the army; and Je·hosh′a·phat the son of A·hi′lud was recorder. <a id="chapter8_verse17"></a><b><sup>17 </sup></b>And Za′dok the son of A·hi′tub and A·him′e·lech the son of A·bi′a·thar were priests, and Se·rai′ah was secretary. <a id="chapter8_verse18"></a><b><sup>18 </sup></b>And Be·nai′ah the son of Je·hoi′a·da was over the Cher′e·thites and the Pel′e·thites. As for the sons of David, they became priests.</p>
</body>
</html>
