<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="application/xhtml+xml; charset=utf-8" />
<title>2 Samuel 16</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/bi12.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
<p class="w_biblebookname">2 Samuel</p><p class="sb"><a id="page431"></a><a id="chapter16"></a><a id="chapter16_verse1"></a><span class="w_ch"><b>16 </b></span>When David himself had crossed over a little beyond the summit, there was Zi′ba the attendant of Me·phib′o·sheth to meet him with a couple of asses saddled and upon them two hundred loaves of bread and a hundred cakes of raisins and a hundred loads of summer fruit and a large jar of wine. <a id="chapter16_verse2"></a><b><sup>2 </sup></b>Then the king said to Zi′ba: “What do these things mean on your part?” To this Zi′ba said: “The asses are for the household of the king to ride, and the bread and the load of summer fruit are for the young men to eat, and the wine is for the one tired out in the wilderness to drink.” <a id="chapter16_verse3"></a><b><sup>3 </sup></b>The king now said: “And where is the son of your master?” At this Zi′ba said to the king: “There he is dwelling in Jerusalem; for he said, ‘Today the house of Israel will give back to me the royal rule of my father.’” <a id="chapter16_verse4"></a><b><sup>4 </sup></b>The king then said to Zi′ba: “Look! Yours is everything that belongs to Me·phib′o·sheth.” Upon that Zi′ba said: “I do bow down. Let me find favor in your eyes, my lord the king.”</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter16_verse5"></a><b><sup>5 </sup></b>And King David came as far as Ba·hu′rim, and, look! coming out from there was a man of the family of Saul’s house, and his name was Shim′e·i, the son of Ge′ra, coming out and calling down evil as he came out. <a id="chapter16_verse6"></a><b><sup>6 </sup></b>And he began throwing stones at David and at all the servants of King David; and all the people and all the mighty men were at his right and at his left. <a id="chapter16_verse7"></a><b><sup>7 </sup></b>And this is what Shim′e·i said as he called down evil: “Get out, get out, you bloodguilty man and good-for-nothing man! <a id="chapter16_verse8"></a><b><sup>8 </sup></b>Jehovah has brought back upon you all the bloodguilt for the house of Saul in place of whom you have ruled as king; and Jehovah gives the kingship into the hand of Ab′sa·lom your son. And here you are in your calamity, because you are a bloodguilty man!”</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter16_verse9"></a><b><sup>9 </sup></b>Finally A·bish′ai the son of Ze·ru′iah said to the king: “Why should this dead dog call down evil upon my lord the king? Let me go over, please, and take off his head.” <a id="chapter16_verse10"></a><b><sup>10 </sup></b>But the king said: “What do I have to do with <span class="smcap">YOU </span>men, <span class="smcap">YOU </span>sons of Ze·ru′iah? Thus let him call down evil, because Jehovah himself has said to him, ‘Call down evil upon David!’ So who should say, ‘Why did you do that way?’” <a id="chapter16_verse11"></a><b><sup>11 </sup></b>And David went on to say to A·bish′ai and all his servants: “Here my own son, who has come forth out of my own inward parts, is looking for my soul; and how much more now a Ben′ja·min·ite! Let him alone that he may call down evil, for Jehovah has said so to him! <a id="chapter16_verse12"></a><b><sup>12 </sup></b>Perhaps Jehovah will see with his eye, and Jehovah will actually restore to me goodness instead of his malediction this day.” <a id="chapter16_verse13"></a><b><sup>13 </sup></b>With that David and his men kept going on in the road, while Shim′e·i was walking on the side of the mountain, walking abreast of him that he might call down evil; and he kept throwing stones while abreast of him, and he threw a lot of dust.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter16_verse14"></a><b><sup>14 </sup></b>At length the king and all the people that were with him arrived tired. So they refreshed themselves there.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter16_verse15"></a><b><sup>15 </sup></b>As for Ab′sa·lom and all the people, the men of Israel, they entered Jerusalem; and A·hith′o·phel was with him. <a id="chapter16_verse16"></a><b><sup>16 </sup></b>And it came about that, as soon as Hu′shai the Ar′chite, David’s companion, came in to Ab′sa·lom, Hu′shai proceeded to say to Ab′sa·lom: “Let the king live! Let the king live!” <a id="chapter16_verse17"></a><b><sup>17 </sup></b>At this Ab′sa·lom said to Hu′shai: “This is the loving-kindness <a id="page432"></a>of yours toward your companion, is it? Why did you not go with your companion?” <a id="chapter16_verse18"></a><b><sup>18 </sup></b>So Hu′shai said to Ab′sa·lom: “No; but the one whom Jehovah has chosen and also this people and all the men of Israel, his I shall become, and with him I shall dwell. <a id="chapter16_verse19"></a><b><sup>19 </sup></b>And for the second time I must say, Whom shall I myself serve? Is it not before his son? Just as I served before your father, so I shall prove to be before you.”</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter16_verse20"></a><b><sup>20 </sup></b>Later Ab′sa·lom said to A·hith′o·phel: “Y<span class="smcap">OU </span>men, give counsel on <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>part. What shall we do?” <a id="chapter16_verse21"></a><b><sup>21 </sup></b>Then A·hith′o·phel said to Ab′sa·lom: “Have relations with the concubines of your father, whom he left behind to take care of the house. And all Israel will certainly hear that you have made yourself foul-smelling to your father, and the hands of all those who are with you will certainly become strong.” <a id="chapter16_verse22"></a><b><sup>22 </sup></b>Accordingly they pitched a tent for Ab′sa·lom upon the roof, and Ab′sa·lom began to have relations with the concubines of his father under the eyes of all Israel.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter16_verse23"></a><b><sup>23 </sup></b>And the counsel of A·hith′o·phel, with which he counseled in those days, was just as when a man would inquire of the word of the true God. That was the way all the counsel of A·hith′o·phel was both to David and to Ab′sa·lom.</p>
</body>
</html>
