<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="application/xhtml+xml; charset=utf-8" />
<title>2 Samuel 20</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/bi12.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
<p class="w_biblebookname">2 Samuel</p><p class="sb"><a id="chapter20"></a><a id="chapter20_verse1"></a><span class="w_ch"><b>20 </b></span>Now there happened to be there a good-for-nothing man, whose name was She′ba, the son of Bich′ri a Ben′ja·min·ite; and he proceeded to blow the horn and say: “We have no share in David, and we have no inheritance in the son of Jes′se. Every one to his gods, O Israel!” <a id="chapter20_verse2"></a><b><sup>2 </sup></b>At that all the men of Israel began to go up from following David to follow She′ba the son of Bich′ri; but as for the men of Judah, they stuck to their king from the Jordan to Jerusalem.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter20_verse3"></a><b><sup>3 </sup></b>Eventually David came to his house at Jerusalem. Then the king took the ten women, the concubines whom he had left behind to take care of the house, and he put them in a house of confinement, but he kept on supplying food to them. And with them he did not have any relations, but they continued shut up closely until the day of their dying, in a widowhood with a living husband.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter20_verse4"></a><b><sup>4 </sup></b>The king now said to A·ma′sa: “Call the men of Judah together to me within three days, and you yourself stand here.” <a id="chapter20_verse5"></a><b><sup>5 </sup></b>So A·ma′sa went to call Judah together; but he came later than the fixed time that he had appointed for him. <a id="chapter20_verse6"></a><b><sup>6 </sup></b>Then David said to A·bish′ai: “Now She′ba the son of Bich′ri will be worse for us than Ab′sa·lom. You yourself <a id="page439"></a>take the servants of your lord and chase after him, that he may not actually find for himself fortified cities and escape before our eyes.” <a id="chapter20_verse7"></a><b><sup>7 </sup></b>Accordingly the men of Jo′ab and the Cher′e·thites and the Pel′e·thites and all the mighty men went out after him; and they went on out of Jerusalem to chase after She′ba the son of Bich′ri. <a id="chapter20_verse8"></a><b><sup>8 </sup></b>They were close by the great stone that is in Gib′e·on, and A·ma′sa himself came to meet them. Now Jo′ab was girded, clothed with a garment; and upon him there was girded a sword attached to his hip, in its sheath. And he himself came forth, and so it fell out.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter20_verse9"></a><b><sup>9 </sup></b>And Jo′ab proceeded to say to A·ma′sa: “Is it all right with you, my brother?” Then Jo′ab’s right hand took hold of A·ma′sa’s beard so as to kiss him. <a id="chapter20_verse10"></a><b><sup>10 </sup></b>As for A·ma′sa, he was not on guard against the sword that was in Jo′ab’s hand; so that he struck him with it in the abdomen, and his intestines spilled out to the earth, and he did not have to do it to him again. So he died. And Jo′ab and A·bish′ai his brother, for their part, chased after She′ba the son of Bich′ri.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter20_verse11"></a><b><sup>11 </sup></b>And a certain one of Jo′ab’s young men stood over him and kept saying: “Whoever has found delight in Jo′ab and whoever belongs to David, let him follow Jo′ab!” <a id="chapter20_verse12"></a><b><sup>12 </sup></b>All the while A·ma′sa was wallowing in the blood in the middle of the highway. When the man saw that all the people stood still, then he moved A·ma′sa from the highway to the field. Finally he cast a garment over him, as he saw that everyone coming up to him stood still. <a id="chapter20_verse13"></a><b><sup>13 </sup></b>As soon as he had removed him from the highway, each man passed by following Jo′ab to chase after She′ba the son of Bich′ri.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter20_verse14"></a><b><sup>14 </sup></b>And She′ba went passing through all the tribes of Israel to Abel of Beth-ma′a·cah. As for all the Bich′rites, they then congregated together and also went in after him.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter20_verse15"></a><b><sup>15 </sup></b>And they proceeded to come and lay siege against him in Abel of Beth-ma′a·cah and cast up a siege rampart against the city, as it was standing within a rampart. And all the people that were with Jo′ab were undermining the wall, to throw it down. <a id="chapter20_verse16"></a><b><sup>16 </sup></b>And a wise woman began to call from the city: “Listen, men, listen! Say, please, to Jo′ab, ‘Come near as far as here, and let me speak to you.’” <a id="chapter20_verse17"></a><b><sup>17 </sup></b>So he went near to her, and the woman then said: “Are you Jo′ab?” to which he said: “I am.” At this she said to him: “Listen to the words of your slave girl.” In turn he said: “I am listening.” <a id="chapter20_verse18"></a><b><sup>18 </sup></b>And she went on to say: “Without exception they used to speak in former times, saying, ‘Let them but inquire in Abel, and thus they will certainly end the matter.’ <a id="chapter20_verse19"></a><b><sup>19 </sup></b>I represent the peaceable and faithful ones of Israel. You are seeking to put to death a city and a mother in Israel. Why should you swallow up the inheritance of Jehovah?” <a id="chapter20_verse20"></a><b><sup>20 </sup></b>To this Jo′ab answered and said: “It is altogether unthinkable on my part that I should swallow up and that I should bring to ruin. <a id="chapter20_verse21"></a><b><sup>21 </sup></b>The matter is not that way, but a man from the mountainous region of E′phra·im, whose name is She′ba the son of Bich′ri, has lifted up his hand against King David. Y<span class="smcap">OU </span>people, give him over by himself, and I will withdraw from the city.” Then the woman said to Jo′ab: “Look! His head will be pitched to you over the wall!”</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter20_verse22"></a><b><sup>22 </sup></b>At once the woman went in her wisdom to all the people, and they proceeded to cut off the head of She′ba the son of Bich′ri and pitch it to Jo′ab. <a id="page440"></a>Upon that he blew the horn, and so they were scattered from the city, each one to his home; and Jo′ab himself returned to Jerusalem to the king.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter20_verse23"></a><b><sup>23 </sup></b>And Jo′ab was over all the army of Israel; and Be·nai′ah the son of Je·hoi′a·da was over the Cher′e·thites and over the Pel′e·thites. <a id="chapter20_verse24"></a><b><sup>24 </sup></b>And A·do′ram was over those conscripted for forced labor; and Je·hosh′a·phat the son of A·hi′lud was the recorder. <a id="chapter20_verse25"></a><b><sup>25 </sup></b>And She′va was secretary, and Za′dok and A·bi′a·thar were priests. <a id="chapter20_verse26"></a><b><sup>26 </sup></b>And I′ra the Ja′ir·ite also became a priest of David.</p>
</body>
</html>
