<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="application/xhtml+xml; charset=utf-8" />
<title>1 Kings 9</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/bi12.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
<p class="w_biblebookname">1 Kings</p><p class="sb"><a id="chapter9"></a><a id="chapter9_verse1"></a><span class="w_ch"><b>9 </b></span>And it came about that, as soon as Sol′o·mon had finished building the house of Jehovah and the house of the king and every desirable thing of Sol′o·mon that he took delight in making, <a id="chapter9_verse2"></a><b><sup>2 </sup></b>then Jehovah appeared <a id="page466"></a>to Sol′o·mon the second time, the same as he had appeared to him in Gib′e·on. <a id="chapter9_verse3"></a><b><sup>3 </sup></b>And Jehovah went on to say to him: “I have heard your prayer and your request for favor with which you requested favor before me. I have sanctified this house that you have built by putting my name there to time indefinite; and my eyes and my heart will certainly prove to be there always. <a id="chapter9_verse4"></a><b><sup>4 </sup></b>And you, if you will walk before me, just as David your father walked, with integrity of heart and with uprightness by doing according to all that I have commanded you, and you will keep my regulations and my judicial decisions, <a id="chapter9_verse5"></a><b><sup>5 </sup></b>I also shall indeed establish the throne of your kingdom over Israel to time indefinite, just as I promised David your father, saying, ‘Not a man of yours will be cut off from sitting upon the throne of Israel.’ <a id="chapter9_verse6"></a><b><sup>6 </sup></b>If <span class="smcap">YOU </span>yourselves and <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>sons should definitely turn back from following me and not keep my commandments and my statutes that I have put before <span class="smcap">YOU </span>men, and <span class="smcap">YOU </span>actually go and serve other gods and bow down to them, <a id="chapter9_verse7"></a><b><sup>7 </sup></b>I will also cut Israel off from upon the surface of the ground that I have given to them; and the house that I have sanctified to my name I shall throw away from before me, and Israel will indeed become a proverbial saying and a taunt among all the peoples. <a id="chapter9_verse8"></a><b><sup>8 </sup></b>And this house itself will become heaps of ruins. Everyone passing by it will stare in amazement and will certainly whistle and say, ‘For what reason did Jehovah do like that to this land and this house?’ <a id="chapter9_verse9"></a><b><sup>9 </sup></b>And they will have to say, ‘For the reason that they left Jehovah their God who had brought their forefathers out from the land of Egypt, and they proceeded to take hold of other gods and bow down to them and serve them. That is why Jehovah brought upon them all this calamity.’”</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter9_verse10"></a><b><sup>10 </sup></b>And it came about at the end of twenty years, in which Sol′o·mon built the two houses, the house of Jehovah and the house of the king, <a id="chapter9_verse11"></a><b><sup>11 </sup></b>(Hi′ram the king of Tyre had himself assisted Sol′o·mon with timbers of cedar trees and timbers of juniper trees and with gold as much as he delighted in,) that at that time King Sol′o·mon proceeded to give to Hi′ram twenty cities in the land of Gal′i·lee. <a id="chapter9_verse12"></a><b><sup>12 </sup></b>Accordingly Hi′ram went out from Tyre to see the cities that Sol′o·mon had given him, and they were not just right in his eyes. <a id="chapter9_verse13"></a><b><sup>13 </sup></b>So he said: “What sort of cities are these that you have given me, my brother?” And they came to be called the Land of Ca′bul down to this day.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter9_verse14"></a><b><sup>14 </sup></b>In the meantime Hi′ram sent to the king a hundred and twenty talents of gold.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter9_verse15"></a><b><sup>15 </sup></b>Now this is the account of those conscripted for forced labor that King Sol′o·mon levied to build the house of Jehovah and his own house and the Mound and the wall of Jerusalem and Ha′zor and Me·gid′do and Ge′zer. <a id="chapter9_verse16"></a><b><sup>16 </sup></b>(Phar′aoh the king of Egypt himself had come up and then captured Ge′zer and burned it with fire, and the Ca′naan·ites dwelling in the city he had killed. So he gave it as a parting gift to his daughter, the wife of Sol′o·mon.) <a id="chapter9_verse17"></a><b><sup>17 </sup></b>And Sol′o·mon went on to build Ge′zer and Lower Beth-ho′ron, <a id="chapter9_verse18"></a><b><sup>18 </sup></b>and Ba′al·ath and Ta′mar in the wilderness, in the land, <a id="chapter9_verse19"></a><b><sup>19 </sup></b>and all the storage cities that became Sol′o·mon’s and the chariot cities and the <a id="page467"></a>cities for the horsemen, and the desirable things of Sol′o·mon that he had desired to build in Jerusalem and in Leb′a·non and in all the land of his dominion. <a id="chapter9_verse20"></a><b><sup>20 </sup></b>As for all the people remaining over from the Am′or·ites, the Hit′tites, the Per′iz·zites, the Hi′vites and the Jeb′u·sites, who were no part of the sons of Israel, <a id="chapter9_verse21"></a><b><sup>21 </sup></b>their sons who had been left over after them in the land whom the sons of Israel had been unable to devote to destruction, Sol′o·mon kept levying them for slavish forced labor until this day. <a id="chapter9_verse22"></a><b><sup>22 </sup></b>And there were none of the sons of Israel that Sol′o·mon constituted slaves; for they were the warriors and his servants and his princes and his adjutants and chiefs of his charioteers and of his horsemen. <a id="chapter9_verse23"></a><b><sup>23 </sup></b>These were the chiefs of the deputies who were over the work of Sol′o·mon, five hundred and fifty, the foremen over the people who were active in the work.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter9_verse24"></a><b><sup>24 </sup></b>However, Phar′aoh’s daughter herself came up out of the City of David to her own house that he had built for her. It was then that he built the Mound.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter9_verse25"></a><b><sup>25 </sup></b>And Sol′o·mon continued three times in the year to offer up burnt sacrifices and communion sacrifices upon the altar that he had built for Jehovah, and there was a making of sacrificial smoke on the altar, which was before Jehovah; and he completed the house.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter9_verse26"></a><b><sup>26 </sup></b>And there was a fleet of ships that King Sol′o·mon made in E′zi·on-ge′ber, which is by E′loth, upon the shore of the Red Sea in the land of E′dom. <a id="chapter9_verse27"></a><b><sup>27 </sup></b>And Hi′ram kept sending in the fleet of ships his own servants, seamen, having a knowledge of the sea, along with the servants of Sol′o·mon. <a id="chapter9_verse28"></a><b><sup>28 </sup></b>And they proceeded to go to O′phir and take from there four hundred and twenty talents of gold and bring it in to King Sol′o·mon.</p>
</body>
</html>
