<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="application/xhtml+xml; charset=utf-8" />
<title>1 Kings 11</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/bi12.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
<p class="w_biblebookname">1 Kings</p><p class="sb"><a id="chapter11"></a><a id="chapter11_verse1"></a><span class="w_ch"><b>11 </b></span>And King Sol′o·mon himself loved many foreign wives along with the daughter of Phar′aoh, Mo′ab·ite, Am′mon·ite, E′dom·ite, Si·do′ni·an and Hit′tite women, <a id="chapter11_verse2"></a><b><sup>2 </sup></b>from the nations of whom Jehovah had said to the sons of Israel: “Y<span class="smcap">OU </span>must not go in among them, and they themselves should not come in among <span class="smcap">YOU</span>; truly they will incline <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>heart to follow their gods.” It was to them that Sol′o·mon clung to love them. <a id="chapter11_verse3"></a><b><sup>3 </sup></b>And he came to have seven hundred wives, princesses, and three hundred concubines; and his wives gradually inclined his heart. <a id="chapter11_verse4"></a><b><sup>4 </sup></b>And it came about in the time of Sol′o·mon’s growing old that his wives themselves had inclined his heart to follow other gods; and his heart did not prove to be complete with Jehovah his God like the heart of David his father. <a id="chapter11_verse5"></a><b><sup>5 </sup></b>And Sol′o·mon began going after Ash′to·reth the goddess of the Si·do′ni·ans and after Mil′com the disgusting thing of the Am′mon·ites. <a id="chapter11_verse6"></a><b><sup>6 </sup></b>And Sol′o·mon began to do what was bad in the eyes of Jehovah, and he did not follow Jehovah fully like David his father.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter11_verse7"></a><b><sup>7 </sup></b>It was then that Sol′o·mon proceeded to build a high place to Che′mosh the disgusting thing of Mo′ab on the mountain that was in front of Jerusalem, and to Mo′lech the disgusting thing of the sons of Am′mon. <a id="chapter11_verse8"></a><b><sup>8 </sup></b>And that was the way he did for all his foreign wives who were making sacrificial smoke and sacrificing to their gods.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter11_verse9"></a><b><sup>9 </sup></b>And Jehovah came to be incensed at Sol′o·mon, because his heart had inclined away from Jehovah the God of Israel, the one appearing to him twice. <a id="chapter11_verse10"></a><b><sup>10 </sup></b>And respecting this thing he commanded him not to go after other gods; but he had not kept that which Jehovah had commanded. <a id="chapter11_verse11"></a><b><sup>11 </sup></b>Jehovah now said to Sol′o·mon: “For the reason that this has taken place with you and you have not kept my covenant and my statutes that I laid in command upon you, I shall without fail rip the kingdom away from off you, and I shall certainly give it to your servant. <a id="chapter11_verse12"></a><b><sup>12 </sup></b>However, in your days I shall not do it, for the sake of David your father. Out of the hand of your son I shall rip it away. <a id="chapter11_verse13"></a><b><sup>13 </sup></b>Only it will not be all the kingdom that I shall rip away. One tribe I shall give to your son, for the sake of David my servant and for the sake of Jerusalem which I have chosen.”</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter11_verse14"></a><b><sup>14 </sup></b>And Jehovah began to raise up a resister to Sol′o·mon, namely, Ha′dad the E′dom·ite of the offspring of the king. He was in E′dom. <a id="chapter11_verse15"></a><b><sup>15 </sup></b>And it came about when David struck down E′dom, when Jo′ab the chief of the army came up to bury those slain, that he tried to strike down every male in E′dom. <a id="chapter11_verse16"></a><b><sup>16 </sup></b>(For it was six months that Jo′ab and all Israel dwelt there until <a id="page470"></a>he had cut off every male in E′dom.) <a id="chapter11_verse17"></a><b><sup>17 </sup></b>And Ha′dad went running away, he and some E′dom·ite men of the servants of his father with him, to come into Egypt, while Ha′dad was a young boy. <a id="chapter11_verse18"></a><b><sup>18 </sup></b>So they rose up out of Mid′i·an and came into Pa′ran and took men with them from Pa′ran and came into Egypt to Phar′aoh the king of Egypt, who then gave him a house. Also, bread he assigned to him, and land he gave him. <a id="chapter11_verse19"></a><b><sup>19 </sup></b>And Ha′dad continued to find favor in the eyes of Phar′aoh, so much that he gave him a wife, the sister of his own wife, the sister of Tah′pe·nes the lady. <a id="chapter11_verse20"></a><b><sup>20 </sup></b>In time the sister of Tah′pe·nes bore him Ge·nu′bath his son, and Tah′pe·nes got to wean him right inside the house of Phar′aoh; and Ge·nu′bath continued at the house of Phar′aoh right among the sons of Phar′aoh.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter11_verse21"></a><b><sup>21 </sup></b>And Ha′dad himself heard in Egypt that David had lain down with his forefathers and that Jo′ab the chief of the army had died. So Ha′dad said to Phar′aoh: “Send me away, that I may go to my own land.” <a id="chapter11_verse22"></a><b><sup>22 </sup></b>But Phar′aoh said to him: “What are you in need of while with me that here you are seeking to go to your own land?” To this he said: “Nothing; but you ought to send me away without fail.”</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter11_verse23"></a><b><sup>23 </sup></b>And God proceeded to raise up to him another resister, namely, Re′zon the son of E·li′a·da, who had run away from Had·ad·e′zer the king of Zo′bah his lord. <a id="chapter11_verse24"></a><b><sup>24 </sup></b>And he kept collecting men to his side and came to be chief of a marauder band, when David killed them. So they went to Damascus and took up dwelling in it and began reigning in Damascus. <a id="chapter11_verse25"></a><b><sup>25 </sup></b>And he came to be a resister of Israel all the days of Sol′o·mon, and that along with the injury that Ha′dad did; and he had an abhorrence of Israel while he continued reigning over Syria.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter11_verse26"></a><b><sup>26 </sup></b>And there was Jer·o·bo′am the son of Ne′bat an E′phra·im·ite from Zer′e·dah, a servant of Sol′o·mon, and his mother’s name was Ze·ru′ah, a widowed woman. He too began to lift up his hand against the king. <a id="chapter11_verse27"></a><b><sup>27 </sup></b>And this is the reason why he lifted up his hand against the king: Sol′o·mon himself had built the Mound. He had closed up the gap of the City of David his father. <a id="chapter11_verse28"></a><b><sup>28 </sup></b>Now the man Jer·o·bo′am was a valiant, mighty man. When Sol′o·mon got to see that the young man was a hard worker, he proceeded to make him overseer over all the compulsory service of the house of Joseph. <a id="chapter11_verse29"></a><b><sup>29 </sup></b>And it came about at that particular time that Jer·o·bo′am himself went out from Jerusalem, and A·hi′jah the Shi′lo·nite the prophet got to find him on the road, and A·hi′jah was covering himself with a new garment; and the two of them were by themselves in the field. <a id="chapter11_verse30"></a><b><sup>30 </sup></b>A·hi′jah now took hold of the new garment that was on him and ripped it into twelve pieces. <a id="chapter11_verse31"></a><b><sup>31 </sup></b>And he went on to say to Jer·o·bo′am:</p>
<p class="sb">“Take for yourself ten pieces; for this is what Jehovah the God of Israel has said, ‘Here I am ripping the kingdom out of the hand of Sol′o·mon, and I shall certainly give you ten tribes. <a id="chapter11_verse32"></a><b><sup>32 </sup></b>And the one tribe is what will continue his for the sake of my servant David and for the sake of Jerusalem, the city that I have chosen out of all the tribes of Israel. <a id="chapter11_verse33"></a><b><sup>33 </sup></b>The reason why is that they have left me and begun to bow down to Ash′to·reth the goddess of the Si·do′ni·ans, to Che′mosh the god of Mo′ab and to Mil′com the god of the sons of Am′mon; and they have not walked in my ways by doing <a id="page471"></a>what is right in my eyes and my statutes and my judicial decisions like David his father. <a id="chapter11_verse34"></a><b><sup>34 </sup></b>But I shall not take the entire kingdom out of his hand, because a chieftain I shall set him for all the days of his life, for the sake of David my servant whom I chose, because he kept my commandments and my statutes. <a id="chapter11_verse35"></a><b><sup>35 </sup></b>And I shall certainly take the kingship out of the hand of his son and give it to you, even ten tribes. <a id="chapter11_verse36"></a><b><sup>36 </sup></b>And to his son I shall give one tribe, in order that David my servant may continue having a lamp always before me in Jerusalem, the city that I have chosen for myself to put my name there. <a id="chapter11_verse37"></a><b><sup>37 </sup></b>And you are the one that I shall take, and you will indeed reign over all that your soul craves, and you will certainly become king over Israel. <a id="chapter11_verse38"></a><b><sup>38 </sup></b>And it must occur that, if you obey all that I shall command you, and you do walk in my ways and actually do what is right in my eyes by keeping my statutes and my commandments, just as David my servant did, I will also prove to be with you, and I will build you a lasting house, just as I have built for David, and I will give you Israel. <a id="chapter11_verse39"></a><b><sup>39 </sup></b>And I shall humiliate the offspring of David on account of this, only not always.’”</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter11_verse40"></a><b><sup>40 </sup></b>And Sol′o·mon began seeking to put Jer·o·bo′am to death. So Jer·o·bo′am got up and went running off to Egypt to Shi′shak the king of Egypt, and he continued in Egypt until Sol′o·mon’s death.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter11_verse41"></a><b><sup>41 </sup></b>As for the rest of the affairs of Sol′o·mon and all that he did and his wisdom, are they not written in the book of the affairs of Sol′o·mon? <a id="chapter11_verse42"></a><b><sup>42 </sup></b>And the days that Sol′o·mon had reigned in Jerusalem over all Israel were forty years. <a id="chapter11_verse43"></a><b><sup>43 </sup></b>Then Sol′o·mon lay down with his forefathers, and was buried in the City of David his father; and Re·ho·bo′am his son began to reign in place of him.</p>
</body>
</html>
