<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="application/xhtml+xml; charset=utf-8" />
<title>1 Kings 4</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/bi12.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
<p class="w_biblebookname">1 Kings</p><p class="sb"><a id="chapter4"></a><a id="chapter4_verse1"></a><span class="w_ch"><b>4 </b></span>And King Sol′o·mon continued king over all Israel. <a id="chapter4_verse2"></a><b><sup>2 </sup></b>And these are the princes that he had: Az·a·ri′ah the son of Za′dok, <a id="page455"></a>the priest; <a id="chapter4_verse3"></a><b><sup>3 </sup></b>El·i·hor′eph and A·hi′jah, the sons of Shi′sha, secretaries; Je·hosh′a·phat the son of A·hi′lud, the recorder; <a id="chapter4_verse4"></a><b><sup>4 </sup></b>and Be·nai′ah the son of Je·hoi′a·da was over the army, and Za′dok and A·bi′a·thar were priests; <a id="chapter4_verse5"></a><b><sup>5 </sup></b>and Az·a·ri′ah the son of Nathan was over the deputies, and Za′bud the son of Nathan was a priest, the friend of the king; <a id="chapter4_verse6"></a><b><sup>6 </sup></b>and A·hi′shar was over the household, and Ad·o·ni′ram the son of Ab′da, over those conscripted for forced labor.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter4_verse7"></a><b><sup>7 </sup></b>And Sol′o·mon had twelve deputies over all Israel, and they provided the king and his household with food. It would devolve upon each one to provide the food one month in the year. <a id="chapter4_verse8"></a><b><sup>8 </sup></b>And these were their names: The son of Hur, in the mountainous region of E′phra·im; <a id="chapter4_verse9"></a><b><sup>9 </sup></b>the son of De′ker, in Ma′kaz and in Sha·al′bim and Beth-she′mesh and E′lon-beth-ha′nan; <a id="chapter4_verse10"></a><b><sup>10 </sup></b>the son of He′sed, in A·rub′both (he had So′coh and all the land of He′pher); <a id="chapter4_verse11"></a><b><sup>11 </sup></b>the son of A·bin′a·dab, all the mountain ridge of Dor (Ta′phath, Sol′o·mon’s daughter, herself became his wife); <a id="chapter4_verse12"></a><b><sup>12 </sup></b>Ba′a·na the son of A·hi′lud, in Ta′a·nach and Me·gid′do and all Beth-she′an, which is beside Zar′e·than below Jez′re·el, from Beth-she′an to A′bel-me·ho′lah to the region of Jok′me·am; <a id="chapter4_verse13"></a><b><sup>13 </sup></b>the son of Ge′ber, in Ra′moth-gil′e·ad (he had the tent villages of Ja′ir the son of Ma·nas′seh, which are in Gil′e·ad; he had the region of Ar′gob, which is in Ba′shan: sixty large cities with wall and copper bar); <a id="chapter4_verse14"></a><b><sup>14 </sup></b>A·hin′a·dab the son of Id′do, in Ma·ha·na′im; <a id="chapter4_verse15"></a><b><sup>15 </sup></b>A·him′a·az, in Naph′ta·li (he, too, took Bas′e·math, Sol′o·mon’s daughter, as a wife); <a id="chapter4_verse16"></a><b><sup>16 </sup></b>Ba′a·na the son of Hu′shai, in Ash′er and Be·a′loth; <a id="chapter4_verse17"></a><b><sup>17 </sup></b>Je·hosh′a·phat the son of Pa·ru′ah, in Is′sa·char; <a id="chapter4_verse18"></a><b><sup>18 </sup></b>Shim′e·i the son of E′la, in Benjamin; <a id="chapter4_verse19"></a><b><sup>19 </sup></b>Ge′ber the son of U′ri, in the land of Gil′e·ad, the land of Si′hon the king of the Am′or·ites, and of Og the king of Ba′shan, and there was one deputy over all the other deputies that were in the land.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter4_verse20"></a><b><sup>20 </sup></b>Judah and Israel were many, like the grains of sand that are by the sea for multitude, eating and drinking and rejoicing.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter4_verse21"></a><b><sup>21 </sup></b>As for Sol′o·mon, he proved to be ruler over all the kingdoms from the River to the land of the Phi·lis′tines and to the boundary of Egypt. They were bringing gifts and serving Sol′o·mon all the days of his life.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter4_verse22"></a><b><sup>22 </sup></b>And Sol′o·mon’s food for each day regularly proved to be thirty cor measures of fine flour and sixty cor measures of flour, <a id="chapter4_verse23"></a><b><sup>23 </sup></b>ten fat cattle and twenty pastured cattle and a hundred sheep, besides some stags and gazelles and roebucks and fattened cuckoos. <a id="chapter4_verse24"></a><b><sup>24 </sup></b>For he was holding in subjection everything this side of the River, from Tiph′sah to Ga′za, even all the kings this side of the River; and peace itself became his in every region of his, all around. <a id="chapter4_verse25"></a><b><sup>25 </sup></b>And Judah and Israel continued to dwell in security, everyone under his own vine and under his own fig tree, from Dan to Be′er-she′ba, all the days of Sol′o·mon.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter4_verse26"></a><b><sup>26 </sup></b>And Sol′o·mon came to have forty thousand stalls of horses for his chariots and twelve thousand horsemen.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter4_verse27"></a><b><sup>27 </sup></b>And these deputies supplied food to King Sol′o·mon and everyone approaching the table of King Sol′o·mon, each one in his month. They left nothing lacking. <a id="chapter4_verse28"></a><b><sup>28 </sup></b>And the barley and the straw for the horses and for <a id="page456"></a>the teams of horses they kept bringing to wherever the place might prove to be, each one according to his commission.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter4_verse29"></a><b><sup>29 </sup></b>And God continued giving Sol′o·mon wisdom and understanding in very great measure and a broadness of heart, like the sand that is upon the seashore. <a id="chapter4_verse30"></a><b><sup>30 </sup></b>And Sol′o·mon’s wisdom was vaster than the wisdom of all the Orientals and than all the wisdom of Egypt. <a id="chapter4_verse31"></a><b><sup>31 </sup></b>And he was wiser than any other man, than E′than the Ez′ra·hite and He′man and Cal′col and Dar′da the sons of Ma′hol; and his fame came to be in all the nations all around. <a id="chapter4_verse32"></a><b><sup>32 </sup></b>And he could speak three thousand proverbs, and his songs came to be a thousand and five. <a id="chapter4_verse33"></a><b><sup>33 </sup></b>And he would speak about the trees, from the cedar that is in Leb′a·non to the hyssop that is coming forth on the wall; and he would speak about the beasts and about the flying creatures and about the moving things and about the fishes. <a id="chapter4_verse34"></a><b><sup>34 </sup></b>And they kept coming from all the peoples to hear Sol′o·mon’s wisdom, even from all the kings of the earth who had heard of his wisdom.</p>
</body>
</html>
