<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="application/xhtml+xml; charset=utf-8" />
<title>2 Kings 16</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/bi12.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
<p class="w_biblebookname">2 Kings</p><p class="sb"><a id="chapter16"></a><a id="chapter16_verse1"></a><span class="w_ch"><b>16 </b></span>In the seventeenth year of Pe′kah the son of Rem·a·li′ah, A′haz the son of Jo′tham the king of Judah became king. <a id="chapter16_verse2"></a><b><sup>2 </sup></b>Twenty years old was A′haz when he began to reign, and for sixteen years he reigned in Jerusalem; and he did not do what was right in the eyes of Jehovah his God like David his forefather. <a id="chapter16_verse3"></a><b><sup>3 </sup></b>And he went walking in the way of the kings of Israel, and even his own son he made pass through the fire, according to the detestable things of the nations whom Jehovah drove out because of the sons of Israel. <a id="chapter16_verse4"></a><b><sup>4 </sup></b>And he kept sacrificing and making sacrificial smoke on the high places and upon the hills and under every luxuriant tree.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter16_verse5"></a><b><sup>5 </sup></b>It was then that Re′zin the king of Syria and Pe′kah the son of Rem·a·li′ah the king of Israel proceeded to come up against Jerusalem in war and laid siege against A′haz, but they were not able to fight. <a id="chapter16_verse6"></a><b><sup>6 </sup></b>At that time Re′zin the king of Syria restored E′lath to E′dom, after which he cleared out the Jews from E′lath; and the E′dom·ites, for their part, entered E′lath and kept dwelling there down to this day. <a id="chapter16_verse7"></a><b><sup>7 </sup></b>So A′haz sent messengers to Tig′lath-pil·e′ser the king of As·syr′i·a, saying: “I am your servant and your son. Come up and save me out of the palm of the king of Syria and out of the palm of the king of Israel, who are rising up against me.” <a id="chapter16_verse8"></a><b><sup>8 </sup></b>Accordingly A′haz took the silver and the gold that was to be found at the house of Jehovah and in the treasures of the king’s house and sent the king of As·syr′i·a a bribe. <a id="chapter16_verse9"></a><b><sup>9 </sup></b>At that the king of As·syr′i·a listened to him and the king of As·syr′i·a went up to Damascus and captured it and led its people into exile at Kir, and Re′zin he put to death.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter16_verse10"></a><b><sup>10 </sup></b>Then King A′haz went to meet Tig′lath-pil·e′ser the king of As·syr′i·a at Damascus, and he got to see the altar that was in Damascus. So King A′haz sent U·ri′jah the priest the design of the altar and its pattern as respects all its workmanship. <a id="chapter16_verse11"></a><b><sup>11 </sup></b>And U·ri′jah the priest proceeded to build the altar. According to all that King A′haz had sent from Damascus was the way that U·ri′jah the priest made it, pending the time that King A′haz came from Damascus. <a id="chapter16_verse12"></a><b><sup>12 </sup></b>When the king came from Damascus, the king got to see the altar; and the king began to go near to the altar and make offerings upon it. <a id="chapter16_verse13"></a><b><sup>13 </sup></b>And he continued to make his burnt offering and his grain offering smoke and to pour out his drink offering and to sprinkle the blood of the communion sacrifices that were his upon the altar. <a id="chapter16_verse14"></a><b><sup>14 </sup></b>And the copper altar that was before Jehovah he now brought near from in front of the house, from between his altar <a id="page519"></a>and the house of Jehovah, and put it at the north side of his altar. <a id="chapter16_verse15"></a><b><sup>15 </sup></b>And King A′haz went on to command him, even U·ri′jah the priest, saying: “Upon the great altar make the burnt offering of the morning smoke, also the grain offering of the evening and the burnt offering of the king and his grain offering and the burnt offering of all the people of the land and their grain offering and their drink offerings; and all the blood of burnt offering and all the blood of a sacrifice you should sprinkle upon it. As for the copper altar, it will become something for me to take under consideration.” <a id="chapter16_verse16"></a><b><sup>16 </sup></b>And U·ri′jah the priest went doing according to all that King A′haz had commanded.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter16_verse17"></a><b><sup>17 </sup></b>Furthermore, King A′haz cut the sidewalls of the carriages in pieces and removed from off them the basins; and the sea he took down off the copper bulls that were underneath it and then put it upon a stone pavement. <a id="chapter16_verse18"></a><b><sup>18 </sup></b>And the covered structure for the sabbath that they had built in the house and the king’s outer entryway he shifted from the house of Jehovah because of the king of As·syr′i·a.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter16_verse19"></a><b><sup>19 </sup></b>As for the rest of the affairs of A′haz, what he did, are they not written in the book of the affairs of the days of the kings of Judah? <a id="chapter16_verse20"></a><b><sup>20 </sup></b>Finally A′haz lay down with his forefathers and was buried with his forefathers in the City of David; and Hez·e·ki′ah his son began to reign in place of him.</p>
</body>
</html>
