<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="application/xhtml+xml; charset=utf-8" />
<title>2 Kings 8</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/bi12.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
<p class="w_biblebookname">2 Kings</p><p class="sb"><a id="chapter8"></a><a id="chapter8_verse1"></a><span class="w_ch"><b>8 </b></span>And E·li′sha himself had spoken to the woman whose son he had revived, saying: “Rise up and go, you with your household, and reside as an alien wherever you can reside as an alien; for Jehovah has called for a famine, and, besides, it must come upon the land for seven years.” <a id="chapter8_verse2"></a><b><sup>2 </sup></b>So the woman got up and did according to the word of the man of the true God and went, she with her household, and took up residence as an alien in the land of the Phi·lis′tines for seven years.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter8_verse3"></a><b><sup>3 </sup></b>And it came about at the end of seven years that the woman proceeded to return from the land of the Phi·lis′tines and go forth to cry out to the king for her house and for her field. <a id="chapter8_verse4"></a><b><sup>4 </sup></b>Now the king was speaking to Ge·ha′zi the attendant of the man of the true God, saying: “Do relate to me, please, all the great things that E·li′sha has done.” <a id="chapter8_verse5"></a><b><sup>5 </sup></b>And it came about that as he was relating to the king how he had revived the dead one, why, here the woman whose son he had revived was crying out to the king for her house and for her field. At once Ge·ha′zi said: “My lord the king, this is the woman, and this is her son whom E·li′sha revived.” <a id="chapter8_verse6"></a><b><sup>6 </sup></b>At that the king asked the woman, and she went on to relate to him the story. Then the king gave her a court official, saying: “Return all that belongs to her and all the products <a id="page505"></a>of the field from the day of her leaving the land until now.”</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter8_verse7"></a><b><sup>7 </sup></b>And E·li′sha proceeded to come to Damascus; and Ben-ha′dad the king of Syria was sick. Accordingly the report was made to him, saying: “The man of the true God has come as far as here.” <a id="chapter8_verse8"></a><b><sup>8 </sup></b>At that the king said to Haz′a·el: “Take a gift in your hand and go and meet the man of the true God, and you must inquire of Jehovah through him, saying, ‘Shall I revive from this sickness?’” <a id="chapter8_verse9"></a><b><sup>9 </sup></b>So Haz′a·el went to meet him and took a gift in his hand, even every sort of good thing of Damascus, the load of forty camels, and came and stood before him and said: “Your son, Ben-ha′dad, the king of Syria, has sent me to you, saying, ‘Shall I revive from this sickness?’” <a id="chapter8_verse10"></a><b><sup>10 </sup></b>Then E·li′sha said to him: “Go, say to him, ‘You will positively revive,’ and Jehovah has shown me that he will positively die.” <a id="chapter8_verse11"></a><b><sup>11 </sup></b>And he kept a fixed look and kept it set to the point of embarrassment. Then the man of the true God gave way to weeping. <a id="chapter8_verse12"></a><b><sup>12 </sup></b>At this Haz′a·el said: “Why is my lord weeping?” To this he said: “Because I well know what injury you will do to the sons of Israel. Their fortified places you will consign to the fire, and their choice men you will kill with the sword, and their children you will dash to pieces, and their pregnant women you will rip up.” <a id="chapter8_verse13"></a><b><sup>13 </sup></b>Upon that Haz′a·el said: “What is your servant, who is a mere dog, that he could do this great thing?” But E·li′sha said: “Jehovah has shown me you as king over Syria.”</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter8_verse14"></a><b><sup>14 </sup></b>After that he went from E·li′sha and came to his own lord, who then said to him: “What did E·li′sha say to you?” To this he said: “He said to me, ‘You will positively revive.’” <a id="chapter8_verse15"></a><b><sup>15 </sup></b>And it came about on the next day that he proceeded to take a coverlet and dip it in water and spread it out over his face, so that he died. And Haz′a·el began to reign in place of him.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter8_verse16"></a><b><sup>16 </sup></b>And in the fifth year of Je·ho′ram the son of A′hab the king of Israel, while Je·hosh′a·phat was king of Judah, Je·ho′ram the son of Je·hosh′a·phat the king of Judah became king. <a id="chapter8_verse17"></a><b><sup>17 </sup></b>Thirty-two years old he happened to be when he became king, and for eight years he reigned in Jerusalem. <a id="chapter8_verse18"></a><b><sup>18 </sup></b>And he went walking in the way of the kings of Israel, just as those of the house of A′hab had done; for it was A′hab’s daughter that became his wife, and he kept doing what was bad in Jehovah’s eyes. <a id="chapter8_verse19"></a><b><sup>19 </sup></b>And Jehovah did not want to bring Judah to ruin for the sake of David his servant, just as he had promised him to give a lamp to him and to his sons always.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter8_verse20"></a><b><sup>20 </sup></b>In his days E′dom revolted from under the hand of Judah, and then made a king reign over them. <a id="chapter8_verse21"></a><b><sup>21 </sup></b>Consequently Je·ho′ram passed over to Za′ir, also all the chariots with him. And it came about that he himself rose up by night and got to strike down the E′dom·ites that were surrounding him and the chiefs of the chariots; and the people went fleeing to their tents. <a id="chapter8_verse22"></a><b><sup>22 </sup></b>But E′dom kept up its revolt from under the hand of Judah down to this day. It was then that Lib′nah began to revolt at that time.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter8_verse23"></a><b><sup>23 </sup></b>And the rest of the affairs of Je·ho′ram and all that he did, are they not written in the book of the affairs of the days of the kings of Judah? <a id="chapter8_verse24"></a><b><sup>24 </sup></b>Finally Je·ho′ram lay down with his forefathers and was buried with his <a id="page506"></a>forefathers in the City of David. And A·ha·zi′ah his son began to reign in place of him.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter8_verse25"></a><b><sup>25 </sup></b>In the twelfth year of Je·ho′ram the son of A′hab the king of Israel, A·ha·zi′ah the son of Je·ho′ram the king of Judah became king. <a id="chapter8_verse26"></a><b><sup>26 </sup></b>Twenty-two years old was A·ha·zi′ah when he began to reign, and for one year he reigned in Jerusalem. And his mother’s name was Ath·a·li′ah the granddaughter of Om′ri the king of Israel. <a id="chapter8_verse27"></a><b><sup>27 </sup></b>And he went walking in the way of the house of A′hab and kept doing what was bad in Jehovah’s eyes, like the house of A′hab, for he was a relative of the house of A′hab by marriage. <a id="chapter8_verse28"></a><b><sup>28 </sup></b>Accordingly he went with Je·ho′ram the son of A′hab to the war against Haz′a·el the king of Syria at Ra′moth-gil′e·ad, but the Syrians struck down Je·ho′ram. <a id="chapter8_verse29"></a><b><sup>29 </sup></b>So Je·ho′ram the king returned to get healed at Jez′re·el from the wounds that the Syrians got to inflict upon him at Ra′mah when he fought Haz′a·el the king of Syria. As for A·ha·zi′ah the son of Je·ho′ram the king of Judah, he went down to see Je·ho′ram the son of A′hab in Jez′re·el, for he was sick.</p>
</body>
</html>
