<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="application/xhtml+xml; charset=utf-8" />
<title>1 Chronicles 16</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/bi12.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
<p class="w_biblebookname">1 Chronicles</p><p class="sb"><a id="chapter16"></a><a id="chapter16_verse1"></a><span class="w_ch"><b>16 </b></span>Thus they brought the ark of the true God in and placed it inside the tent that David had pitched for it; and they began to present burnt offerings and communion sacrifices before the true God. <a id="chapter16_verse2"></a><b><sup>2 </sup></b>When David finished offering up the burnt offering and the communion sacrifices, he went on to bless the people in the name of Jehovah. <a id="chapter16_verse3"></a><b><sup>3 </sup></b>Further, he apportioned to all the Israelites, man as well as woman, to each one a round loaf of bread and a date cake and a raisin cake. <a id="chapter16_verse4"></a><b><sup>4 </sup></b>Then he put before the ark of Jehovah some of the Levites as ministers, both to call to remembrance and to thank and praise Jehovah the God of Israel, <a id="chapter16_verse5"></a><b><sup>5 </sup></b>A′saph the head, and second to him Zech·a·ri′ah, and Je·i′el and She·mir′a·moth and Je·hi′el and Mat·ti·thi′ah and E·li′ab and Be·nai′ah and O′bed-e′dom and Je·i′el, with instruments of the string type and with harps, and A′saph with the cymbals playing aloud, <a id="chapter16_verse6"></a><b><sup>6 </sup></b>and Be·nai′ah and Ja·ha·zi′el the priests with the trumpets constantly before the ark of the covenant of the true God.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter16_verse7"></a><b><sup>7 </sup></b>It was then on that day that David made a contribution for the first time to thank Jehovah by means of A′saph and his brothers:</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter16_verse8"></a> <b><sup>8 </sup></b>“Give thanks to Jehovah, <span class="smcap">YOU </span>people; call upon his name,</p>
<p class="sz">Make his deeds known among the peoples!</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter16_verse9"></a> <b><sup>9 </sup></b>Sing to him, make melody to him,</p>
<p class="sz">Concern yourselves with all his wonderful acts.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter16_verse10"></a><b><sup>10 </sup></b>Make <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>boast in his holy name,</p>
<p class="sz">Let the heart of those seeking Jehovah rejoice.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter16_verse11"></a><b><sup>11 </sup></b>Search after Jehovah and his strength,</p>
<p class="sz">Seek his face constantly.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter16_verse12"></a><b><sup>12 </sup></b>Remember his wonderful acts that he has performed,</p>
<p class="sz">His miracles and the judicial decisions of his mouth,</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter16_verse13"></a><b><sup>13 </sup></b>O offspring of Israel his servant,</p>
<p class="sz">Y<span class="smcap">OU </span>sons of Jacob, his chosen ones.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter16_verse14"></a><b><sup>14 </sup></b>He is Jehovah our God; in all the earth are his judicial decisions.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter16_verse15"></a><b><sup>15 </sup></b>Remember his covenant even to time indefinite,</p>
<p class="sz">The word that he commanded, to a thousand generations,</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter16_verse16"></a><b><sup>16 </sup></b>Which covenant he concluded with Abraham,</p>
<p class="sz">And his sworn statement to Isaac.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter16_verse17"></a><b><sup>17 </sup></b>And which statement he kept standing as a regulation even to Jacob,</p>
<p class="sz"><a id="page559"></a>As an indefinitely lasting covenant even to Israel,</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter16_verse18"></a><b><sup>18 </sup></b>Saying, ‘To you I shall give the land of Ca′naan,</p>
<p class="sz">As the allotment of <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>inheritance.’</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter16_verse19"></a><b><sup>19 </sup></b>This was when <span class="smcap">YOU </span>happened to be few in number,</p>
<p class="sz">Yes, very few, and alien residents in it.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter16_verse20"></a><b><sup>20 </sup></b>And they kept walking about from nation to nation,</p>
<p class="sz">And from one kingdom to another people.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter16_verse21"></a><b><sup>21 </sup></b>He did not allow anyone to defraud them,</p>
<p class="sz">But on their account he reproved kings,</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter16_verse22"></a><b><sup>22 </sup></b>Saying, ‘Do not <span class="smcap">YOU </span>men touch my anointed ones,</p>
<p class="sz">And to my prophets do nothing bad.’</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter16_verse23"></a><b><sup>23 </sup></b>Sing to Jehovah, all <span class="smcap">YOU </span>of the earth!</p>
<p class="sz">Announce from day to day the salvation he gives!</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter16_verse24"></a><b><sup>24 </sup></b>Relate among the nations his glory,</p>
<p class="sz">Among all the peoples his wonderful acts.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter16_verse25"></a><b><sup>25 </sup></b>For Jehovah is great and very much to be praised,</p>
<p class="sz">And he is to be feared more than all other gods.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter16_verse26"></a><b><sup>26 </sup></b>For all the gods of the peoples are valueless gods.</p>
<p class="sz">As for Jehovah, he made the heavens.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter16_verse27"></a><b><sup>27 </sup></b>Dignity and splendor are before him,</p>
<p class="sz">Strength and joy are at his place.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter16_verse28"></a><b><sup>28 </sup></b>Attribute to Jehovah, O families of peoples,</p>
<p class="sz">Attribute to Jehovah glory and strength.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter16_verse29"></a><b><sup>29 </sup></b>Attribute to Jehovah the glory of his name,</p>
<p class="sz">Carry a gift and come in before him.</p>
<p class="sz">Bow down to Jehovah in holy adornment.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter16_verse30"></a><b><sup>30 </sup></b>Be in severe pains on account of him, all <span class="smcap">YOU </span>people of the earth!</p>
<p class="sz">Also the productive land is firmly established:</p>
<p class="sz">Never will it be made to totter.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter16_verse31"></a><b><sup>31 </sup></b>Let the heavens rejoice, and let the earth be joyful,</p>
<p class="sz">And let them say among the nations, ‘Jehovah himself has become king!’</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter16_verse32"></a><b><sup>32 </sup></b>Let the sea thunder and also that which fills it,</p>
<p class="sz">Let the field exult and all that is in it.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter16_verse33"></a><b><sup>33 </sup></b>At the same time let the trees of the forest break out joyfully on account of Jehovah,</p>
<p class="sz">For he has come to judge the earth.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter16_verse34"></a><b><sup>34 </sup></b>Give thanks to Jehovah, <span class="smcap">YOU </span>people, for he is good,</p>
<p class="sz">For to time indefinite is his loving-kindness.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter16_verse35"></a><b><sup>35 </sup></b>And say, ‘Save us, O God of our salvation,</p>
<p class="sz">And collect us together and deliver us from the nations,</p>
<p class="sz">To give thanks to your holy name, to speak exultingly in your praise.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter16_verse36"></a><b><sup>36 </sup></b>Blessed be Jehovah the God of Israel from time indefinite to time indefinite.’”</p>
<p class="sb">And all the people proceeded to say, “Amen!” and a praise to Jehovah.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter16_verse37"></a><b><sup>37 </sup></b>Then he left there before the ark of the covenant of Jehovah A′saph and his brothers to minister before the Ark constantly, according to the requirement of each day; <a id="chapter16_verse38"></a><b><sup>38 </sup></b>and O′bed-e′dom and his brothers, sixty-eight, and O′bed-e′dom the son of Je·du′thun and Ho′sah as gatekeepers; <a id="chapter16_verse39"></a><b><sup>39 </sup></b>and Za′dok the priest and his brothers the priests before the tabernacle of Jehovah on the high place that was at Gib′e·on, <a id="chapter16_verse40"></a><b><sup>40 </sup></b>to offer up burnt offerings to Jehovah on the altar of burnt offering constantly <a id="page560"></a>morning and evening and for all that is written in the law of Jehovah that he laid in command upon Israel; <a id="chapter16_verse41"></a><b><sup>41 </sup></b>and with them He′man and Je·du′thun and the rest of the select men that were designated by names to thank Jehovah, because “to time indefinite is his loving-kindness”; <a id="chapter16_verse42"></a><b><sup>42 </sup></b>and with them He′man and Je·du′thun, to sound forth the trumpets and cymbals and instruments of the song of the true God; and the sons of Je·du′thun at the gate. <a id="chapter16_verse43"></a><b><sup>43 </sup></b>And all the people proceeded to go each one to his own house. Accordingly David went around to bless his own house.</p>
</body>
</html>
