<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="application/xhtml+xml; charset=utf-8" />
<title>1 Chronicles 27</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/bi12.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
<p class="w_biblebookname">1 Chronicles</p><p class="sb"><a id="chapter27"></a><a id="chapter27_verse1"></a><span class="w_ch"><b>27 </b></span>As for the sons of Israel by their number, the heads of the paternal houses and the chiefs of the thousands and of the hundreds and their officers that were ministering to the king in every matter of the divisions of those that came in and that went out month by month for all the months of the year, each division was twenty-four thousand.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter27_verse2"></a><b><sup>2 </sup></b>Over the first division of the first month there was Ja·sho′be·am the son of Zab′di·el, and in his division there were twenty-four thousand. <a id="chapter27_verse3"></a><b><sup>3 </sup></b>Some of the sons of Pe′rez the head of all the chiefs of the service groups were for the first month. <a id="chapter27_verse4"></a><b><sup>4 </sup></b>And over the division of the second month there was Do′dai the A·ho′hite with his division, and Mik′loth was the leader, and in his division there were twenty-four thousand. <a id="chapter27_verse5"></a><b><sup>5 </sup></b>The chief of the third service group for the third month was Be·nai′ah the son of Je·hoi′a·da the chief priest, and in his division there were twenty-four thousand. <a id="chapter27_verse6"></a><b><sup>6 </sup></b>This Be·nai′ah was a mighty man of the thirty and over the thirty; and over his division there was Am·miz′a·bad his son. <a id="chapter27_verse7"></a><b><sup>7 </sup></b>The fourth for the fourth month was As′a·hel, Jo′ab’s brother, and Zeb·a·di′ah his son after him, and in his division there were twenty-four thousand. <a id="chapter27_verse8"></a><b><sup>8 </sup></b>The fifth chief for the fifth month was Sham′huth the Iz′rah·ite, and in his division there were twenty-four thousand. <a id="chapter27_verse9"></a><b><sup>9 </sup></b>The sixth for the sixth month was I′ra the son of Ik′kesh the Te·ko′ite, and in his division there were twenty-four thousand. <a id="chapter27_verse10"></a><b><sup>10 </sup></b>The seventh for the seventh month was He′lez the Pel′o·nite of the sons of E′phra·im, and in his division there were twenty-four thousand. <a id="chapter27_verse11"></a><b><sup>11 </sup></b>The eighth for the eighth month was Sib′be·cai the Hu′shath·ite of the Ze′rah·ites, and in his division there were twenty-four thousand. <a id="chapter27_verse12"></a><b><sup>12 </sup></b>The ninth for the ninth month was Abi-e′zer the An′a·thoth·ite of the Ben′ja·min·ites, and in his <a id="page572"></a>division there were twenty-four thousand. <a id="chapter27_verse13"></a><b><sup>13 </sup></b>The tenth for the tenth month was Ma′ha·rai the Ne·toph′a·thite of the Ze′rah·ites, and in his division there were twenty-four thousand. <a id="chapter27_verse14"></a><b><sup>14 </sup></b>The eleventh for the eleventh month was Be·nai′ah the Pir′a·thon·ite of the sons of E′phra·im, and in his division there were twenty-four thousand. <a id="chapter27_verse15"></a><b><sup>15 </sup></b>The twelfth for the twelfth month was Hel′dai the Ne·toph′a·thite, of Oth′ni·el, and in his division there were twenty-four thousand.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter27_verse16"></a><b><sup>16 </sup></b>And over the tribes of Israel, of the Reu′ben·ites, E·li·e′zer the son of Zich′ri was leader; of the Sim′e·on·ites, Sheph·a·ti′ah the son of Ma′a·cah; <a id="chapter27_verse17"></a><b><sup>17 </sup></b>of Le′vi, Hash·a·bi′ah the son of Kem·u′el; of Aaron, Za′dok; <a id="chapter27_verse18"></a><b><sup>18 </sup></b>of Judah, E·li′hu, one of David’s brothers; of Is′sa·char, Om′ri the son of Mi′cha·el; <a id="chapter27_verse19"></a><b><sup>19 </sup></b>of Zeb′u·lun, Ish·ma′iah the son of O·ba·di′ah; of Naph′ta·li, Jer′i·moth the son of Az′ri·el; <a id="chapter27_verse20"></a><b><sup>20 </sup></b>of the sons of E′phra·im, Ho·she′a the son of Az·a·zi′ah; of the half tribe of Ma·nas′seh, Joel the son of Pe·dai′ah; <a id="chapter27_verse21"></a><b><sup>21 </sup></b>of the half tribe of Ma·nas′seh in Gil′e·ad, Id′do the son of Zech·a·ri′ah; of Benjamin, Ja·a·si′el the son of Ab′ner; <a id="chapter27_verse22"></a><b><sup>22 </sup></b>of Dan, Az′ar·el the son of Je·ro′ham. These were the princes of the tribes of Israel.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter27_verse23"></a><b><sup>23 </sup></b>And David did not take the number of those from twenty years of age and under, because Jehovah had promised to make Israel as many as the stars of the heavens. <a id="chapter27_verse24"></a><b><sup>24 </sup></b>Jo′ab the son of Ze·ru′iah had himself started to take the count, but he did not finish; and for this there came to be indignation against Israel, and the number did not come up into the account of the affairs of the days of King David.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter27_verse25"></a><b><sup>25 </sup></b>And over the treasures of the king there was Az′ma·veth the son of Ad′i·el. And over the treasures in the field, in the cities and in the villages and in the towers there was Jon′a·than the son of Uz·zi′ah. <a id="chapter27_verse26"></a><b><sup>26 </sup></b>And over the doers of work in the field, for the cultivation of the soil, there was Ez′ri the son of Che′lub. <a id="chapter27_verse27"></a><b><sup>27 </sup></b>And over the vineyards there was Shim′e·i the Ra′math·ite; and over that which was in the vineyards for the wine supplies there was Zab′di the Shiph′mite. <a id="chapter27_verse28"></a><b><sup>28 </sup></b>And over the olive groves and the sycamore trees that were in the She·phe′lah there was Ba′al-ha′nan the Ge·de′rite; and over the oil supplies there was Jo′ash. <a id="chapter27_verse29"></a><b><sup>29 </sup></b>And over the herds that were grazing in Shar′on there was Shit′rai the Shar′on·ite; and over the herds in the low plains there was Sha′phat the son of Ad′lai. <a id="chapter27_verse30"></a><b><sup>30 </sup></b>And over the camels there was O′bil the Ish′ma·el·ite; and over the she-asses there was Jeh·de′iah the Me·ron′o·thite. <a id="chapter27_verse31"></a><b><sup>31 </sup></b>And over the flocks there was Ja′ziz the Hag′rite. All these were the chiefs of the goods that belonged to King David.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter27_verse32"></a><b><sup>32 </sup></b>And Jon′a·than, David’s nephew, was a counselor, a man of understanding, he being also a secretary; and Je·hi′el the son of Hach′mo·ni was with the king’s sons. <a id="chapter27_verse33"></a><b><sup>33 </sup></b>And A·hith′o·phel was a counselor of the king; and Hu′shai the Ar′chite was the king’s companion. <a id="chapter27_verse34"></a><b><sup>34 </sup></b>And after A·hith′o·phel there were Je·hoi′a·da the son of Be·nai′ah and A·bi′a·thar; and Jo′ab was chief of the army of the king.</p>
</body>
</html>
