<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="application/xhtml+xml; charset=utf-8" />
<title>1 Chronicles</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/bi12.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
<p class="st"><a id="page536"></a><b>The First of Chronicles</b></p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter1"></a><a id="chapter1_verse1"></a><span class="w_ch"><b>1 </b></span>Adam,</p>
<p class="sp">Seth,</p>
<p class="sp">E′nosh,</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter1_verse2"></a> <b><sup>2 </sup></b>Ke′nan,</p>
<p class="sp">Ma·hal′a·lel,</p>
<p class="sp">Ja′red,</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter1_verse3"></a> <b><sup>3 </sup></b>E′noch,</p>
<p class="sp">Me·thu′se·lah,</p>
<p class="sp">La′mech,</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter1_verse4"></a><b><sup>4 </sup></b>Noah,</p>
<p class="sp">Shem, Ham and Ja′pheth.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter1_verse5"></a><b><sup>5 </sup></b>The sons of Ja′pheth were Go′mer and Ma′gog and Ma′da·i and Ja′van and Tu′bal and Me′shech and Ti′ras.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter1_verse6"></a><b><sup>6 </sup></b>And the sons of Go′mer were Ash′ke·naz and Ri′phath and To·gar′mah.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter1_verse7"></a><b><sup>7 </sup></b>And the sons of Ja′van were E·li′shah and Tar′shish, Kit′tim and Ro′da·nim.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter1_verse8"></a><b><sup>8 </sup></b>The sons of Ham were Cush and Miz′ra·im, Put and Ca′naan.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter1_verse9"></a><b><sup>9 </sup></b>And the sons of Cush were Se′ba and Hav′i·lah and Sab′tah and Ra′a·mah and Sab′te·ca.</p>
<p class="sb">And the sons of Ra′a·mah were She′ba and De′dan.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter1_verse10"></a><b><sup>10 </sup></b>And Cush himself became father to Nim′rod. He it was that made the start in becoming a mighty one in the earth.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter1_verse11"></a><b><sup>11 </sup></b>As for Miz′ra·im, he became father to Lu′dim and An′a·mim and Le·ha′bim and Naph·tu′him <a id="chapter1_verse12"></a><b><sup>12 </sup></b>and Path·ru′sim and Cas·lu′him (from among whom the Phi·lis′tines went forth) and Caph′to·rim.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter1_verse13"></a><b><sup>13 </sup></b>As for Ca′naan, he became father to Si′don his firstborn and Heth <a id="chapter1_verse14"></a><b><sup>14 </sup></b>and the Jeb′u·site and the Am′or·ite and the Gir′ga·shite <a id="chapter1_verse15"></a><b><sup>15 </sup></b>and the Hi′vite and the Ark′ite and the Si′nite <a id="chapter1_verse16"></a><b><sup>16 </sup></b>and the Ar′vad·ite and the Zem′a·rite and the Ha′math·ite.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter1_verse17"></a><b><sup>17 </sup></b>The sons of Shem were E′lam and As′shur and Ar·pach′shad and Lud and A′ram,</p>
<p class="sb">And Uz and Hul and Ge′ther and Mash.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter1_verse18"></a><b><sup>18 </sup></b>As for Ar·pach′shad, he became father to She′lah, and She′lah himself became father to E′ber.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter1_verse19"></a><b><sup>19 </sup></b>And to E′ber two sons were born. The name of the one was Pe′leg, because in his days the earth was divided; and the name of his brother was Jok′tan.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter1_verse20"></a><b><sup>20 </sup></b>As for Jok′tan, he became father to Al·mo′dad and She′leph and Ha·zar·ma′veth and Je′rah <a id="chapter1_verse21"></a><b><sup>21 </sup></b>and Ha·do′ram and U′zal and Dik′lah <a id="chapter1_verse22"></a><b><sup>22 </sup></b>and O′bal and A·bim′a·el and She′ba <a id="chapter1_verse23"></a><b><sup>23 </sup></b>and O′phir and Hav′i·lah and Jo′bab; all these were the sons of Jok′tan.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter1_verse24"></a><b><sup>24 </sup></b>Shem,</p>
<p class="sz">Ar·pach′shad,</p>
<p class="sz">She′lah,</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter1_verse25"></a><b><sup>25 </sup></b>E′ber,</p>
<p class="sz">Pe′leg,</p>
<p class="sz">Re′u,</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter1_verse26"></a><b><sup>26 </sup></b>Se′rug,</p>
<p class="sz">Na′hor,</p>
<p class="sz">Te′rah,</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter1_verse27"></a><b><sup>27 </sup></b>A′bram, that is to say, Abraham.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter1_verse28"></a><b><sup>28 </sup></b>The sons of Abraham were Isaac and Ish′ma·el.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter1_verse29"></a><b><sup>29 </sup></b>These are their family origins: Ish′ma·el’s firstborn Ne·ba′ioth <a id="page537"></a>and Ke′dar and Ad′be·el and Mib′sam, <a id="chapter1_verse30"></a><b><sup>30 </sup></b>Mish′ma and Du′mah, Mas′sa, Ha′dad and Te′ma, <a id="chapter1_verse31"></a><b><sup>31 </sup></b>Je′tur, Na′phish and Ked′e·mah. These were the sons of Ish′ma·el.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter1_verse32"></a><b><sup>32 </sup></b>As for the sons of Ke·tu′rah, Abraham’s concubine, she gave birth to Zim′ran and Jok′shan and Me′dan and Mid′i·an and Ish′bak and Shu′ah.</p>
<p class="sb">And the sons of Jok′shan were She′ba and De′dan.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter1_verse33"></a><b><sup>33 </sup></b>And the sons of Mid′i·an were E′phah and E′pher and Ha′noch and A·bi′da and El·da′ah.</p>
<p class="sb">All these were the sons of Ke·tu′rah.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter1_verse34"></a><b><sup>34 </sup></b>And Abraham came to be father to Isaac. The sons of Isaac were E′sau and Israel.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter1_verse35"></a><b><sup>35 </sup></b>The sons of E′sau were El′i·phaz, Reu′el and Je′ush and Ja′lam and Ko′rah.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter1_verse36"></a><b><sup>36 </sup></b>The sons of El′i·phaz were Te′man and O′mar, Ze′pho and Ga′tam, Ke′naz and Tim′na and Am′a·lek.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter1_verse37"></a><b><sup>37 </sup></b>The sons of Reu′el were Na′hath, Ze′rah, Sham′mah and Miz′zah.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter1_verse38"></a><b><sup>38 </sup></b>And the sons of Se′ir were Lo′tan and Sho′bal and Zib′e·on and A′nah and Di′shon and E′zer and Di′shan.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter1_verse39"></a><b><sup>39 </sup></b>And the sons of Lo′tan were Ho′ri and Ho′mam. And Lo′tan’s sister was Tim′na.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter1_verse40"></a><b><sup>40 </sup></b>The sons of Sho′bal were Al′van and Man′a·hath and E′bal, She′pho and O′nam.</p>
<p class="sb">And the sons of Zib′e·on were A′iah and A′nah.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter1_verse41"></a><b><sup>41 </sup></b>The sons of A′nah were Di′shon.</p>
<p class="sb">And the sons of Di′shon were Hem′dan and Esh′ban and Ith′ran and Che′ran.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter1_verse42"></a><b><sup>42 </sup></b>The sons of E′zer were Bil′han and Za′a·van and A′kan.</p>
<p class="sb">The sons of Di′shan were Uz and A′ran.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter1_verse43"></a><b><sup>43 </sup></b>And these are the kings that reigned in the land of E′dom before any king reigned over the sons of Israel: Be′la the son of Be′or, the name of whose city was Din′ha·bah. <a id="chapter1_verse44"></a><b><sup>44 </sup></b>Eventually Be′la died, and Jo′bab the son of Ze′rah from Boz′rah began to reign in place of him. <a id="chapter1_verse45"></a><b><sup>45 </sup></b>Eventually Jo′bab died, and Hu′sham from the land of the Te′man·ites began to reign in place of him. <a id="chapter1_verse46"></a><b><sup>46 </sup></b>Eventually Hu′sham died, and Ha′dad the son of Be′dad, who defeated Mid′i·an in the field of Mo′ab, began to reign in place of him. And the name of his city was A′vith. <a id="chapter1_verse47"></a><b><sup>47 </sup></b>Eventually Ha′dad died, and Sam′lah from Mas·re′kah began to reign in place of him. <a id="chapter1_verse48"></a><b><sup>48 </sup></b>Eventually Sam′lah died, and Sha′ul from Re·ho′both by the River began to reign in place of him. <a id="chapter1_verse49"></a><b><sup>49 </sup></b>Eventually Sha′ul died, and Ba′al-ha′nan the son of Ach′bor began to reign in place of him. <a id="chapter1_verse50"></a><b><sup>50 </sup></b>Eventually Ba′al-ha′nan died, and Ha′dad began to reign in place of him; and the name of his city was Pa′u, and the name of his wife was Me·het′a·bel, the daughter of Ma′tred, the daughter of Me′za·hab. <a id="chapter1_verse51"></a><b><sup>51 </sup></b>Eventually Ha′dad died.</p>
<p class="sb">And the sheiks of E′dom came to be sheik Tim′na, sheik Al′vah, sheik Je′theth, <a id="chapter1_verse52"></a><b><sup>52 </sup></b>sheik O·hol·i·ba′mah, sheik E′lah, sheik Pi′non, <a id="chapter1_verse53"></a><b><sup>53 </sup></b>sheik Ke′naz, sheik Te′man, sheik Mib′zar, <a id="chapter1_verse54"></a><b><sup>54 </sup></b>sheik Mag′di·el, sheik I′ram. These were the sheiks of E′dom.</p>
</body>
</html>
