<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="application/xhtml+xml; charset=utf-8" />
<title>1 Chronicles 19</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/bi12.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
<p class="w_biblebookname">1 Chronicles</p><p class="sb"><a id="chapter19"></a><a id="chapter19_verse1"></a><span class="w_ch"><b>19 </b></span>And it came about afterward that Na′hash the king of the sons of Am′mon came to die, and his son began to reign in place of him. <a id="chapter19_verse2"></a><b><sup>2 </sup></b>At that David said: “I shall exercise loving-kindness toward Ha′nun the son of Na′hash, because his father exercised loving-kindness toward me.” Accordingly David sent messengers to comfort him over his father, and the servants of David proceeded to come into the land of the sons of Am′mon to Ha′nun to comfort him. <a id="chapter19_verse3"></a><b><sup>3 </sup></b>However, the princes of the sons of Am′mon said to Ha′nun: “Is David honoring your father in your eyes in that he has sent comforters to you? Is it not for the sake of making a thorough search and causing an overthrow and for spying out the land that his servants have come in to you?” <a id="chapter19_verse4"></a><b><sup>4 </sup></b>So Ha′nun took the servants of David and shaved them and cut their garments in half to their buttocks and sent them away. <a id="chapter19_verse5"></a><b><sup>5 </sup></b>Later people went and told David about the men; and he at once sent to meet them, because they had become men very much humiliated; and the king went on to say: “Dwell in Jer′i·cho until <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>beards grow abundantly. Then <span class="smcap">YOU </span>must return.”</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter19_verse6"></a><b><sup>6 </sup></b>In time the sons of Am′mon saw that they had become foul-smelling to David, and Ha′nun and the sons of Am′mon proceeded to send a thousand silver talents to hire for themselves chariots and horsemen from Mes·o·po·ta′mi·a and from A′ram-ma′a·cah and from Zo′bah. <a id="chapter19_verse7"></a><b><sup>7 </sup></b>Thus they hired for themselves thirty-two thousand chariots and the king of Ma′a·cah and his people. Then they came in and camped before Med′e·ba; and as for the sons of Am′mon, they gathered together from their cities and now came in for the war.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="page563"></a><a id="chapter19_verse8"></a><b><sup>8 </sup></b>When David heard of it, he immediately sent Jo′ab and all the army and the mighty men. <a id="chapter19_verse9"></a><b><sup>9 </sup></b>And the sons of Am′mon began to go out and draw up in battle formation at the entrance of the city, and the kings that had come were by themselves in the open field.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter19_verse10"></a><b><sup>10 </sup></b>When Jo′ab saw that the battle charges had come to be against him from the front and from the rear, he at once chose some of all the choice men in Israel and drew them up in formation to meet the Syrians. <a id="chapter19_verse11"></a><b><sup>11 </sup></b>And the rest of the people he gave into the hand of A·bish′ai his brother, that they might draw up in formation to meet the sons of Am′mon. <a id="chapter19_verse12"></a><b><sup>12 </sup></b>And he went on to say: “If the Syrians become too strong for me, you must also serve as a salvation for me; but if the sons of Am′mon themselves become too strong for you, I must also save you. <a id="chapter19_verse13"></a><b><sup>13 </sup></b>Be strong, that we may show ourselves courageous in behalf of our people and in behalf of the cities of our God; and as for Jehovah, what is good in his own eyes he will do.”</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter19_verse14"></a><b><sup>14 </sup></b>Then Jo′ab and the people that were with him advanced before the Syrians to the battle, and they took to flight from before him. <a id="chapter19_verse15"></a><b><sup>15 </sup></b>As for the sons of Am′mon, they saw that the Syrians had fled, and they themselves also took to flight from before A·bish′ai his brother and then came into the city. Later Jo′ab came into Jerusalem.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter19_verse16"></a><b><sup>16 </sup></b>When the Syrians saw that they had been defeated before Israel, they proceeded to send messengers and bring out the Syrians that were in the region of the River, with Sho′phach the chief of the army of Had·ad·e′zer before them.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter19_verse17"></a><b><sup>17 </sup></b>When the report was made to David, he immediately gathered all Israel together and crossed the Jordan and came to them and drew up in formation against them. When David drew up in battle formation to meet the Syrians, they began to fight against him. <a id="chapter19_verse18"></a><b><sup>18 </sup></b>But the Syrians took to flight because of Israel; and David went killing of the Syrians seven thousand charioteers and forty thousand men on foot, and Sho′phach the chief of the army himself he put to death. <a id="chapter19_verse19"></a><b><sup>19 </sup></b>When the servants of Had·ad·e′zer saw that they had been defeated before Israel, they promptly made peace with David and began to serve him; and Syria did not want to try saving the sons of Am′mon anymore.</p>
</body>
</html>
