<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="application/xhtml+xml; charset=utf-8" />
<title>1 Chronicles 24</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/bi12.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
<p class="w_biblebookname">1 Chronicles</p><p class="sb"><a id="chapter24"></a><a id="chapter24_verse1"></a><span class="w_ch"><b>24 </b></span>Now the sons of Aaron had their divisions. The sons of Aaron were Na′dab and A·bi′hu, El·e·a′zar and Ith′a·mar. <a id="chapter24_verse2"></a><b><sup>2 </sup></b>However, Na′dab and A·bi′hu died before their father, and they did not happen to have any sons, but El·e·a′zar and Ith′a·mar continued to act as priests. <a id="chapter24_verse3"></a><b><sup>3 </sup></b>And David, and Za′dok from the sons of El·e·a′zar, and A·him′e·lech from the sons of Ith′a·mar proceeded to make divisions of them for their office in their service. <a id="chapter24_verse4"></a><b><sup>4 </sup></b>But the sons of El·e·a′zar were found to be more numerous in headmen than the sons of Ith′a·mar. So they distributed them to the sons of El·e·a′zar, as heads for their paternal houses, sixteen, and to the sons of Ith′a·mar, as heads for their paternal houses, eight.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter24_verse5"></a><b><sup>5 </sup></b>Further, they distributed them by lots, these along with those, for there had to be chiefs of the holy place and chiefs of the true God from the sons of El·e·a′zar and from the sons of Ith′a·mar. <a id="chapter24_verse6"></a><b><sup>6 </sup></b>Then She·mai′ah the son of Ne·than′el the secretary of the Levites wrote them down before the king and the princes and Za′dok the priest and A·him′e·lech the son of A·bi′a·thar and the heads of the fathers of the priests and of the Levites, one paternal house being picked out for El·e·a′zar and one being picked out for Ith′a·mar.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter24_verse7"></a><b><sup>7 </sup></b>And the lot proceeded to come out: the first for Je·hoi′a·rib; for Je·da′iah the second, <a id="chapter24_verse8"></a><b><sup>8 </sup></b>for Ha′rim the third, for Se·o′rim the fourth, <a id="chapter24_verse9"></a><b><sup>9 </sup></b>for Mal·chi′jah the fifth, for Mij′a·min the sixth, <a id="chapter24_verse10"></a><b><sup>10 </sup></b>for Hak′koz the seventh, for A·bi′jah the eighth, <a id="chapter24_verse11"></a><b><sup>11 </sup></b>for Jesh′u·a the ninth, for Shec·a·ni′ah the tenth, <a id="chapter24_verse12"></a><b><sup>12 </sup></b>for E·li′a·shib the eleventh, for Ja′kim the twelfth, <a id="chapter24_verse13"></a><b><sup>13 </sup></b>for Hup′pah the thirteenth, for Je·sheb′e·ab the fourteenth, <a id="chapter24_verse14"></a><b><sup>14 </sup></b>for Bil′gah the fifteenth, for Im′mer the sixteenth, <a id="chapter24_verse15"></a><b><sup>15 </sup></b>for He′zir the seventeenth, for Hap′piz·zez the eighteenth, <a id="chapter24_verse16"></a><b><sup>16 </sup></b>for Peth·a·hi′ah the nineteenth, for Je·hez′kel the twentieth, <a id="chapter24_verse17"></a><b><sup>17 </sup></b>for Ja′chin the twenty-first, for Ga′mul the twenty-second, <a id="chapter24_verse18"></a><b><sup>18 </sup></b>for De·la′iah the twenty-third, for Ma·a·zi′ah the twenty-fourth.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter24_verse19"></a><b><sup>19 </sup></b>These were their offices for their service, to come into the house of Jehovah according to their due right by the hand of Aaron their forefather, just as Jehovah the God of Israel had commanded him.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter24_verse20"></a><b><sup>20 </sup></b>And of the sons of Le′vi that were left over, of the sons of Am′ram there was Shu′ba·el; of the sons of Shu′ba·el, Jeh·de′iah; <a id="chapter24_verse21"></a><b><sup>21 </sup></b>of Re·ha·bi′ah: of the sons of Re·ha·bi′ah, Is·shi′ah the head; <a id="chapter24_verse22"></a><b><sup>22 </sup></b>of the Iz′har·ites, She·lo′moth; of the sons of She·lo′moth, Ja′hath; <a id="chapter24_verse23"></a><b><sup>23 </sup></b>and the sons of He′bron, Je·ri′ah the head, Am·a·ri′ah the second, Ja·ha·zi′el the third, Jek·a·me′am the fourth. <a id="chapter24_verse24"></a><b><sup>24 </sup></b>The sons of Uz′zi·el, Mi′cah; of the sons of Mi′cah, Sha′mir. <a id="chapter24_verse25"></a><b><sup>25 </sup></b>The brother of Mi′cah was Is·shi′ah; of the sons of Is·shi′ah, Zech·a·ri′ah.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter24_verse26"></a><b><sup>26 </sup></b>The sons of Me·rar′i were Mah′li and Mu′shi; the sons of Ja·a·zi′ah, Be′no. <a id="chapter24_verse27"></a><b><sup>27 </sup></b>The sons of Me·rar′i: Of Ja·a·zi′ah, Be′no and Sho′ham and Zac′cur and Ib′ri. <a id="chapter24_verse28"></a><b><sup>28 </sup></b>Of Mah′li, El·e·a′zar, who did not come to have any <a id="page569"></a>sons. <a id="chapter24_verse29"></a><b><sup>29 </sup></b>Of Kish: the sons of Kish were Je·rah′me·el. <a id="chapter24_verse30"></a><b><sup>30 </sup></b>And the sons of Mu′shi were Mah′li and E′der and Jer′i·moth.</p>
<p class="sb">These were the sons of the Levites by their paternal houses. <a id="chapter24_verse31"></a><b><sup>31 </sup></b>And they themselves also proceeded to cast lots exactly as their brothers the sons of Aaron did before David the king and Za′dok and A·him′e·lech and the heads of the paternal houses of the priests and of the Levites. As respects paternal houses, the head one was exactly as his younger brother.</p>
</body>
</html>
