<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="application/xhtml+xml; charset=utf-8" />
<title>1 Chronicles 3</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/bi12.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
<p class="w_biblebookname">1 Chronicles</p><p class="sb"><a id="chapter3"></a><a id="chapter3_verse1"></a><span class="w_ch"><b>3 </b></span>And these became the sons of David that were born to him in He′bron: the firstborn Am′non, of A·hin′o·am the Jez′re·el·i·tess, the second, Daniel, of Ab′i·gail the Car′mel·it·ess, <a id="chapter3_verse2"></a><b><sup>2 </sup></b>the third, Ab′sa·lom the son of Ma′a·cah the daughter of Tal′mai the king of Gesh′ur, the fourth, Ad·o·ni′jah the son of Hag′gith, <a id="chapter3_verse3"></a><b><sup>3 </sup></b>the fifth, Sheph·a·ti′ah, of A·bi′tal, the sixth, Ith′re·am, of Eg′lah his wife. <a id="chapter3_verse4"></a><b><sup>4 </sup></b>There were six born to him in He′bron; and he continued to reign there seven years and six months, and for thirty-three years he reigned in Jerusalem.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter3_verse5"></a><b><sup>5 </sup></b>And there were these born to him in Jerusalem: Shim′e·a and Sho′bab and Nathan and Sol′o·mon, four of Bath-she′ba the daughter of Am′mi·el, <a id="chapter3_verse6"></a><b><sup>6 </sup></b>and Ib′har and E·lish′a·ma and E·liph′e·let, <a id="chapter3_verse7"></a><b><sup>7 </sup></b>and No′gah and Ne′pheg and Ja·phi′a, <a id="chapter3_verse8"></a><b><sup>8 </sup></b>and E·lish′a·ma and E·li′a·da and E·liph′e·let, nine, <a id="chapter3_verse9"></a><b><sup>9 </sup></b>all the sons of David besides the sons of the concubines, and Ta′mar their sister.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter3_verse10"></a><b><sup>10 </sup></b>And the son of Sol′o·mon was Re·ho·bo′am, A·bi′jah his son, A′sa his son, Je·hosh′a·phat his son, <a id="chapter3_verse11"></a><b><sup>11 </sup></b>Je·ho′ram his son, A·ha·zi′ah his son, Je·ho′ash his son, <a id="chapter3_verse12"></a><b><sup>12 </sup></b>Am·a·zi′ah his son, Az·a·ri′ah his son, Jo′tham his son, <a id="chapter3_verse13"></a><b><sup>13 </sup></b>A′haz his son, Hez·e·ki′ah his son, Ma·nas′seh his son, <a id="chapter3_verse14"></a><b><sup>14 </sup></b>A′mon his son, Jo·si′ah his son. <a id="chapter3_verse15"></a><b><sup>15 </sup></b>And the sons of Jo·si′ah were the firstborn Jo·ha′nan, the second, Je·hoi′a·kim, the third, Zed·e·ki′ah, the fourth, Shal′lum. <a id="chapter3_verse16"></a><b><sup>16 </sup></b>And the sons of Je·hoi′a·kim were Jec·o·ni′ah his son, Zed·e·ki′ah his son. <a id="chapter3_verse17"></a><b><sup>17 </sup></b>And the sons of Jec·o·ni′ah as prisoner were She·al′ti·el his son <a id="chapter3_verse18"></a><b><sup>18 </sup></b>and Mal·chi′ram and Pe·dai′ah and She·naz′zar, Jek·a·mi′ah, Hosh′a·ma and Ned·a·bi′ah. <a id="chapter3_verse19"></a><b><sup>19 </sup></b>And the sons of Pe·dai′ah were Ze·rub′ba·bel and Shim′e·i; and the sons of Ze·rub′ba·bel were Me·shul′lam and Han·a·ni′ah (and She·lo′mith was their sister); <a id="chapter3_verse20"></a><b><sup>20 </sup></b>and Ha·shu′bah and O′hel and Ber·e·chi′ah and Has·a·di′ah, Ju′shab-he′sed, five. <a id="chapter3_verse21"></a><b><sup>21 </sup></b>And the sons of Han·a·ni′ah were Pel·a·ti′ah and Je·sha′iah, the sons of Je·sha′iah Re·pha′iah, the sons of Re·pha′iah Ar′nan, the sons of Ar′nan O·ba·di′ah, the sons of O·ba·di′ah Shec·a·ni′ah; <a id="chapter3_verse22"></a><b><sup>22 </sup></b>and the sons of Shec·a·ni′ah, She·mai′ah, and the sons of She·mai′ah, Hat′tush and I′gal and Ba·ri′ah and Ne·a·ri′ah and Sha′phat, six. <a id="chapter3_verse23"></a><b><sup>23 </sup></b>And the sons of Ne·a·ri′ah were Eli·o·e′nai and Hiz·ki′ah and Az·ri′kam, three. <a id="chapter3_verse24"></a><b><sup>24 </sup></b>And the sons of Eli·o·e′nai were Hod·a·vi′ah and E·li′a·shib and Pe·la′iah and Ak′kub and Jo·ha′nan and De·la′iah and A·na′ni, seven.</p>
</body>
</html>
