<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="application/xhtml+xml; charset=utf-8" />
<title>1 Chronicles 6</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/bi12.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
<p class="w_biblebookname">1 Chronicles</p><p class="sb"><a id="chapter6"></a><a id="chapter6_verse1"></a><span class="w_ch"><b>6 </b></span>The sons of Le′vi were Ger′shon, Ko′hath and Me·rar′i. <a id="chapter6_verse2"></a><b><sup>2 </sup></b>And the sons of Ko′hath were Am′ram, Iz′har and He′bron and Uz′zi·el. <a id="chapter6_verse3"></a><b><sup>3 </sup></b>And the sons of Am′ram were Aaron and Moses, and there was Mir′i·am. And the sons of Aaron were Na′dab and A·bi′hu, El·e·a′zar and Ith′a·mar. <a id="chapter6_verse4"></a><b><sup>4 </sup></b>As for El·e·a′zar, he became father to Phin′e·has. Phin′e·has himself became father to Ab·i·shu′a. <a id="chapter6_verse5"></a><b><sup>5 </sup></b>Ab·i·shu′a, in turn, became father <a id="page544"></a>to Buk′ki; Buk′ki, in turn, became father to Uz′zi. <a id="chapter6_verse6"></a><b><sup>6 </sup></b>Uz′zi, in turn, became father to Zer·a·hi′ah; Zer·a·hi′ah, in turn, became father to Me·ra′ioth. <a id="chapter6_verse7"></a><b><sup>7 </sup></b>Me·ra′ioth himself became father to Am·a·ri′ah; Am·a·ri′ah, in turn, became father to A·hi′tub. <a id="chapter6_verse8"></a><b><sup>8 </sup></b>A·hi′tub, in turn, became father to Za′dok; Za′dok, in turn, became father to A·him′a·az. <a id="chapter6_verse9"></a><b><sup>9 </sup></b>A·him′a·az, in turn, became father to Az·a·ri′ah. Az·a·ri′ah, in turn, became father to Jo·ha′nan. <a id="chapter6_verse10"></a><b><sup>10 </sup></b>Jo·ha′nan, in turn, became father to Az·a·ri′ah. He was the one that acted as priest in the house that Sol′o·mon built in Jerusalem.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter6_verse11"></a><b><sup>11 </sup></b>And Az·a·ri′ah came to be father to Am·a·ri′ah. Am·a·ri′ah, in turn, became father to A·hi′tub. <a id="chapter6_verse12"></a><b><sup>12 </sup></b>A·hi′tub, in turn, became father to Za′dok. Za′dok, in turn, became father to Shal′lum. <a id="chapter6_verse13"></a><b><sup>13 </sup></b>Shal′lum, in turn, became father to Hil·ki′ah. Hil·ki′ah, in turn, became father to Az·a·ri′ah. <a id="chapter6_verse14"></a><b><sup>14 </sup></b>Az·a·ri′ah, in turn, became father to Se·rai′ah. Se·rai′ah, in turn, became father to Je·hoz′a·dak. <a id="chapter6_verse15"></a><b><sup>15 </sup></b>And Je·hoz′a·dak it was that went away when Jehovah took Judah and Jerusalem into exile by the hand of Neb·u·chad·nez′zar.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter6_verse16"></a><b><sup>16 </sup></b>The sons of Le′vi were Ger′shom, Ko′hath and Me·rar′i. <a id="chapter6_verse17"></a><b><sup>17 </sup></b>And these are the names of the sons of Ger′shom: Lib′ni and Shim′e·i. <a id="chapter6_verse18"></a><b><sup>18 </sup></b>And the sons of Ko′hath were Am′ram and Iz′har and He′bron and Uz′zi·el. <a id="chapter6_verse19"></a><b><sup>19 </sup></b>The sons of Me·rar′i were Mah′li and Mu′shi.</p>
<p class="sb">And these were the families of the Levites by their forefathers: <a id="chapter6_verse20"></a><b><sup>20 </sup></b>Of Ger′shom, Lib′ni his son, Ja′hath his son, Zim′mah his son, <a id="chapter6_verse21"></a><b><sup>21 </sup></b>Jo′ah his son, Id′do his son, Ze′rah his son, Je·ath′e·rai his son. <a id="chapter6_verse22"></a><b><sup>22 </sup></b>The sons of Ko′hath were Am·min′a·dab his son, Ko′rah his son, As′sir his son, <a id="chapter6_verse23"></a><b><sup>23 </sup></b>El·ka′nah his son and E·bi′a·saph his son and As′sir his son; <a id="chapter6_verse24"></a><b><sup>24 </sup></b>Ta′hath his son, U·ri′el his son, Uz·zi′ah his son, and Sha′ul his son. <a id="chapter6_verse25"></a><b><sup>25 </sup></b>And the sons of El·ka′nah were A·ma′sai and A·hi′moth. <a id="chapter6_verse26"></a><b><sup>26 </sup></b>As for El·ka′nah, the sons of El·ka′nah were Zo′phai his son and Na′hath his son, <a id="chapter6_verse27"></a><b><sup>27 </sup></b>E·li′ab his son, Je·ro′ham his son, El·ka′nah his son. <a id="chapter6_verse28"></a><b><sup>28 </sup></b>And the sons of Samuel were the firstborn Joel and the second A·bi′jah. <a id="chapter6_verse29"></a><b><sup>29 </sup></b>The sons of Me·rar′i were Mah′li, Lib′ni his son, Shim′e·i his son, Uz′zah his son, <a id="chapter6_verse30"></a><b><sup>30 </sup></b>Shim′e·a his son, Hag·gi′ah his son, A·sai′ah his son.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter6_verse31"></a><b><sup>31 </sup></b>And these were the ones to whom David gave positions for the direction of the singing at the house of Jehovah after the Ark had a resting-place. <a id="chapter6_verse32"></a><b><sup>32 </sup></b>And they came to be ministers in the singing before the tabernacle of the tent of meeting until Sol′o·mon built the house of Jehovah in Jerusalem; and they kept attending upon their service according to their commission. <a id="chapter6_verse33"></a><b><sup>33 </sup></b>And these were those in attendance and also their sons: Of the sons of the Ko′hath·ites He′man the singer, the son of Joel, the son of Samuel, <a id="chapter6_verse34"></a><b><sup>34 </sup></b>the son of El·ka′nah, the son of Je·ro′ham, the son of E′li·el, the son of To′ah, <a id="chapter6_verse35"></a><b><sup>35 </sup></b>the son of Zuph, the son of El·ka′nah, the son of Ma′hath, the son of A·ma′sai, <a id="chapter6_verse36"></a><b><sup>36 </sup></b>the son of El·ka′nah, the son of Joel, the son of Az·a·ri′ah, the son of Zeph·a·ni′ah, <a id="chapter6_verse37"></a><b><sup>37 </sup></b>the son of Ta′hath, the son of As′sir, the son of E·bi′a·saph, the son of Ko′rah, <a id="chapter6_verse38"></a><b><sup>38 </sup></b>the son of Iz′har, the son of Ko′hath, the son of Le′vi, the son of Israel.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter6_verse39"></a><b><sup>39 </sup></b>As for his brother A′saph, who was attending at his right, A′saph was the son of Ber·e·chi′ah, the son of Shim′e·a, <a id="chapter6_verse40"></a><b><sup>40 </sup></b>the son of Mi′cha·el, the son of Ba·a·se′iah, the son of Mal·chi′jah, <a id="chapter6_verse41"></a><b><sup>41 </sup></b>the son of Eth′ni, the son of Ze′rah, the son of A·dai′ah, <a id="page545"></a><a id="chapter6_verse42"></a><b><sup>42 </sup></b>the son of E′than, the son of Zim′mah, the son of Shim′e·i, <a id="chapter6_verse43"></a><b><sup>43 </sup></b>the son of Ja′hath, the son of Ger′shom, the son of Le′vi.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter6_verse44"></a><b><sup>44 </sup></b>As regards the sons of Me·rar′i their brothers on the left hand, there was E′than the son of Kish′i, the son of Ab′di, the son of Mal′luch, <a id="chapter6_verse45"></a><b><sup>45 </sup></b>the son of Hash·a·bi′ah, the son of Am·a·zi′ah, the son of Hil·ki′ah, <a id="chapter6_verse46"></a><b><sup>46 </sup></b>the son of Am′zi, the son of Ba′ni, the son of She′mer, <a id="chapter6_verse47"></a><b><sup>47 </sup></b>the son of Mah′li, the son of Mu′shi, the son of Me·rar′i, the son of Le′vi.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter6_verse48"></a><b><sup>48 </sup></b>And their brothers the Levites were the ones given for all the service of the tabernacle of the house of the true God. <a id="chapter6_verse49"></a><b><sup>49 </sup></b>And Aaron and his sons were making sacrificial smoke upon the altar of burnt offering and upon the altar of incense for all the work of the most holy things and to make atonement for Israel, according to all that Moses the servant of the true God had commanded. <a id="chapter6_verse50"></a><b><sup>50 </sup></b>And these were the sons of Aaron: El·e·a′zar his son, Phin′e·has his son, Ab·i·shu′a his son, <a id="chapter6_verse51"></a><b><sup>51 </sup></b>Buk′ki his son, Uz′zi his son, Zer·a·hi′ah his son, <a id="chapter6_verse52"></a><b><sup>52 </sup></b>Me·ra′ioth his son, Am·a·ri′ah his son, A·hi′tub his son, <a id="chapter6_verse53"></a><b><sup>53 </sup></b>Za′dok his son, A·him′a·az his son.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter6_verse54"></a><b><sup>54 </sup></b>And these were their dwelling places by their walled camps in their territory, for the sons of Aaron belonging to the family of the Ko′hath·ites, for the lot had come to be theirs. <a id="chapter6_verse55"></a><b><sup>55 </sup></b>Accordingly they gave them He′bron in the land of Judah, with its pasture grounds all around it. <a id="chapter6_verse56"></a><b><sup>56 </sup></b>And the field of the city and its settlements they gave to Ca′leb the son of Je·phun′neh. <a id="chapter6_verse57"></a><b><sup>57 </sup></b>And to the sons of Aaron they gave the cities of refuge, He′bron, and Lib′nah with its pasture grounds and Jat′tir and Esh·te·mo′a with its pasture grounds, <a id="chapter6_verse58"></a><b><sup>58 </sup></b>and Hi′len with its pasture grounds, De′bir with its pasture grounds, <a id="chapter6_verse59"></a><b><sup>59 </sup></b>and A′shan with its pasture grounds and Beth-she′mesh with its pasture grounds; <a id="chapter6_verse60"></a><b><sup>60 </sup></b>and from the tribe of Benjamin Ge′ba with its pasture grounds and Al′e·meth with its pasture grounds and An′a·thoth with its pasture grounds. All their cities were thirteen cities among their families.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter6_verse61"></a><b><sup>61 </sup></b>And to the sons of Ko′hath that were left over they gave from the family of the tribe, from the half tribe, the half of Ma·nas′seh, by the lot ten cities.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter6_verse62"></a><b><sup>62 </sup></b>And to the sons of Ger′shom by their families they gave from the tribe of Is′sa·char and from the tribe of Ash′er and from the tribe of Naph′ta·li and from the tribe of Ma·nas′seh in Ba′shan, thirteen cities.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter6_verse63"></a><b><sup>63 </sup></b>To the sons of Me·rar′i by their families they gave from the tribe of Reu′ben and from the tribe of Gad and from the tribe of Zeb′u·lun by the lot twelve cities.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter6_verse64"></a><b><sup>64 </sup></b>Thus the sons of Israel gave the Levites the cities with their pasture grounds. <a id="chapter6_verse65"></a><b><sup>65 </sup></b>Furthermore, by the lot they gave from the tribe of the sons of Judah and from the tribe of the sons of Sim′e·on and from the tribe of the sons of Benjamin these cities, which they proceeded to call by names.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter6_verse66"></a><b><sup>66 </sup></b>And some of the families of the sons of Ko′hath came to have the cities of their territory from the tribe of E′phra·im. <a id="chapter6_verse67"></a><b><sup>67 </sup></b>Accordingly they gave them the cities of refuge, She′chem with its pasture grounds in the mountainous region of E′phra·im, and Ge′zer with its pasture grounds, <a id="chapter6_verse68"></a><b><sup>68 </sup></b>and Jok′me·am with its pasture grounds and Beth-ho′ron with its pasture grounds, <a id="page546"></a><a id="chapter6_verse69"></a><b><sup>69 </sup></b>and Ai′ja·lon with its pasture grounds and Gath-rim′mon with its pasture grounds; <a id="chapter6_verse70"></a><b><sup>70 </sup></b>and from half of the tribe of Ma·nas′seh, A′ner with its pasture grounds and Bil′e·am with its pasture grounds, to the family of the sons of Ko′hath that were left over.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter6_verse71"></a><b><sup>71 </sup></b>And to the sons of Ger′shom they gave from the family of the half tribe of Ma·nas′seh Go′lan in Ba′shan with its pasture grounds and Ash′ta·roth with its pasture grounds; <a id="chapter6_verse72"></a><b><sup>72 </sup></b>and from the tribe of Is′sa·char, Ke′desh with its pasture grounds and Dab′e·rath with its pasture grounds, <a id="chapter6_verse73"></a><b><sup>73 </sup></b>and Ra′moth with its pasture grounds and A′nem with its pasture grounds; <a id="chapter6_verse74"></a><b><sup>74 </sup></b>and from the tribe of Ash′er, Ma′shal with its pasture grounds and Ab′don with its pasture grounds, <a id="chapter6_verse75"></a><b><sup>75 </sup></b>and Hu′kok with its pasture grounds and Re′hob with its pasture grounds; <a id="chapter6_verse76"></a><b><sup>76 </sup></b>and from the tribe of Naph′ta·li, Ke′desh in Gal′i·lee with its pasture grounds and Ham′mon with its pasture grounds and Kir·i·a·tha′im with its pasture grounds.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter6_verse77"></a><b><sup>77 </sup></b>To the sons of Me·rar′i that were left over they gave from the tribe of Zeb′u·lun Rim′mo·no with its pasture grounds, Ta′bor with its pasture grounds, <a id="chapter6_verse78"></a><b><sup>78 </sup></b>and in the region of the Jordan at Jer′i·cho to the east of the Jordan, from the tribe of Reu′ben, Be′zer in the wilderness with its pasture grounds and Ja′haz with its pasture grounds, <a id="chapter6_verse79"></a><b><sup>79 </sup></b>and Ked′e·moth with its pasture grounds and Meph′a·ath with its pasture grounds; <a id="chapter6_verse80"></a><b><sup>80 </sup></b>and from the tribe of Gad, Ra′moth in Gil′e·ad with its pasture grounds and Ma·ha·na′im with its pasture grounds, <a id="chapter6_verse81"></a><b><sup>81 </sup></b>and Hesh′bon with its pasture grounds and Ja′zer with its pasture grounds.</p>
</body>
</html>
