<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="application/xhtml+xml; charset=utf-8" />
<title>2 Chronicles 8</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/bi12.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
<p class="w_biblebookname">2 Chronicles</p><p class="sb"><a id="chapter8"></a><a id="chapter8_verse1"></a><span class="w_ch"><b>8 </b></span>And it came about at the end of twenty years, in which Sol′o·mon had built the house of Jehovah and his own house, <a id="chapter8_verse2"></a><b><sup>2 </sup></b>that the cities that Hi′ram had given to Sol′o·mon—Sol′o·mon rebuilt them and then caused the sons of Israel to dwell there. <a id="chapter8_verse3"></a><b><sup>3 </sup></b>Furthermore, Sol′o·mon went to Ha′math-zo′bah and prevailed over it. <a id="chapter8_verse4"></a><b><sup>4 </sup></b>Then he rebuilt Tad′mor in the wilderness and all the storage cities that he had built in Ha′math. <a id="chapter8_verse5"></a><b><sup>5 </sup></b>And he went on to build Upper Beth-ho′ron and Lower Beth-ho′ron, fortified cities with walls, doors and bar, <a id="chapter8_verse6"></a><b><sup>6 </sup></b>and Ba′al·ath and all the storage cities that had become Sol′o·mon’s and all the chariot cities and the cities for the horsemen and every desirable thing of Sol′o·mon that he had desired to build in Jerusalem and in Leb′a·non and in all the land of his dominion.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter8_verse7"></a><b><sup>7 </sup></b>As for all the people that were left over of the Hit′tites and the Am′or·ites and the Per′iz·zites and the Hi′vites and the Jeb′u·sites, who were no part of Israel, <a id="chapter8_verse8"></a><b><sup>8 </sup></b>from their sons that had been left behind them in the land, whom the sons of Israel had not exterminated, Sol′o·mon kept levying men for forced labor until this day. <a id="chapter8_verse9"></a><b><sup>9 </sup></b>But there were none out of the sons of Israel that Sol′o·mon constituted slaves for his work; for they were warriors and chiefs of his adjutants and chiefs of his charioteers and of his horsemen. <a id="chapter8_verse10"></a><b><sup>10 </sup></b>These were the chiefs of the deputies that belonged to King Sol′o·mon, two hundred and fifty, the foremen over the people.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter8_verse11"></a><b><sup>11 </sup></b>And Phar′aoh’s daughter Sol′o·mon brought up out of the City of David to the house that he had built for her, for he said: “Although a wife of mine, she should not dwell in the house of David the king of Israel, for the places to which the ark of Jehovah has come are something holy.”</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter8_verse12"></a><b><sup>12 </sup></b>It was then that Sol′o·mon offered up burnt sacrifices to Jehovah upon the altar of Jehovah that he had built before the porch, <a id="chapter8_verse13"></a><b><sup>13 </sup></b>even as a daily matter of course to make offerings according to the commandment of Moses for the sabbaths and for the new moons and for the appointed festivals three times in the year, at the festival of unfermented cakes and at the festival of the weeks and at the festival of the booths. <a id="chapter8_verse14"></a><b><sup>14 </sup></b>Further, he set the divisions of the priests over their services according to the rule of David his father, and the Levites at their posts of duty, to praise and to minister in front of the priests as a daily matter of course, and the gatekeepers in their divisions for the different gates, for such was the commandment of David the man of the true God. <a id="chapter8_verse15"></a><b><sup>15 </sup></b>And they did not turn aside from the king’s commandment to the priests and the Levites concerning any matter and concerning the supplies. <a id="page586"></a><a id="chapter8_verse16"></a><b><sup>16 </sup></b>So Sol′o·mon’s work was all in a prepared state from the day of the foundation-laying of the house of Jehovah until it was finished. So the house of Jehovah was complete.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter8_verse17"></a><b><sup>17 </sup></b>It was then that Sol′o·mon went to E′zi·on-ge′ber and to E′loth upon the shore of the sea in the land of E′dom. <a id="chapter8_verse18"></a><b><sup>18 </sup></b>And Hi′ram regularly sent to him by means of his servants ships and servants having a knowledge of the sea, and they would come with Sol′o·mon’s servants to O′phir and take from there four hundred and fifty talents of gold and bring it to King Sol′o·mon.</p>
</body>
</html>
