<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="application/xhtml+xml; charset=utf-8" />
<title>2 Chronicles 26</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/bi12.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
<p class="w_biblebookname">2 Chronicles</p><p class="sb"><a id="chapter26"></a><a id="chapter26_verse1"></a><span class="w_ch"><b>26 </b></span>Then all the people of Judah took Uz·zi′ah, he being sixteen years old, and they made him king in place of his father Am·a·zi′ah. <a id="chapter26_verse2"></a><b><sup>2 </sup></b>He it was that rebuilt E′loth and then restored it to Judah after the king had lain down with his forefathers. <a id="chapter26_verse3"></a><b><sup>3 </sup></b>Sixteen years old was Uz·zi′ah when he began to reign, and for fifty-two years he reigned in Jerusalem. And his mother’s name was Je·co·li′ah of Jerusalem. <a id="chapter26_verse4"></a><b><sup>4 </sup></b>And he kept doing what was right in Jehovah’s eyes, according to all that Am·a·zi′ah his father had done. <a id="chapter26_verse5"></a><b><sup>5 </sup></b>And he continually tended to search for God in the days of Zech·a·ri′ah, the instructor in the fear of the true God; and, in the days of his searching for Jehovah, the true God made him prosperous.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter26_verse6"></a><b><sup>6 </sup></b>And he proceeded to go out and fight against the Phi·lis′tines and break through the wall of Gath and the wall of Jab′neh and the wall of Ash′dod, after which he built cities in Ash′dod territory and among the Phi·lis′tines. <a id="chapter26_verse7"></a><b><sup>7 </sup></b>And the true God continued to help him against the Phi·lis′tines and against the Arabians that were dwelling in Gur·ba′al and the Me·u′nim. <a id="chapter26_verse8"></a><b><sup>8 </sup></b>And the Am′mon·ites began to give tribute to Uz·zi′ah. Eventually his fame went even as far as Egypt, for he displayed strength to an extraordinary degree. <a id="chapter26_verse9"></a><b><sup>9 </sup></b>Moreover, Uz·zi′ah built towers in Jerusalem <a id="page608"></a>by the Corner Gate and by the Valley Gate and by the Buttress, and made them strong. <a id="chapter26_verse10"></a><b><sup>10 </sup></b>Further, he built towers in the wilderness, and hewed out many cisterns (for there was a great deal of livestock that became his), and also in the She·phe′lah and on the tableland. There were farmers and vinedressers in the mountains and in Car′mel, for a lover of agriculture he proved to be.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter26_verse11"></a><b><sup>11 </sup></b>Moreover, Uz·zi′ah came to have a force engaging in war, those going out on military service in troops, by the number of their registration by the hand of Je·i′el the secretary and Ma·a·sei′ah the officer under the control of Han·a·ni′ah of the king’s princes. <a id="chapter26_verse12"></a><b><sup>12 </sup></b>The entire number of the heads of the paternal houses, of the valiant, mighty men, was two thousand six hundred. <a id="chapter26_verse13"></a><b><sup>13 </sup></b>And under their control the army forces were three hundred and seven thousand five hundred men engaging in war with the power of a military force to help the king against the enemy. <a id="chapter26_verse14"></a><b><sup>14 </sup></b>And Uz·zi′ah continued to prepare for them, for the entire army, shields and lances and helmets and coats of mail and bows and slingstones. <a id="chapter26_verse15"></a><b><sup>15 </sup></b>Further, he made in Jerusalem engines of war, the invention of engineers, that they might come to be upon the towers and upon the corners, to shoot arrows and great stones. Consequently his fame went out to a great distance, for he was helped wonderfully until he was strong.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter26_verse16"></a><b><sup>16 </sup></b>However, as soon as he was strong, his heart became haughty even to the point of causing ruin, so that he acted unfaithfully against Jehovah his God and came into the temple of Jehovah to burn incense upon the altar of incense. <a id="chapter26_verse17"></a><b><sup>17 </sup></b>Immediately Az·a·ri′ah the priest and with him priests of Jehovah, eighty valiant men, came in after him. <a id="chapter26_verse18"></a><b><sup>18 </sup></b>Then they stood up against Uz·zi′ah the king and said to him: “It is not your business, O Uz·zi′ah, to burn incense to Jehovah, but it is the business of the priests the sons of Aaron, the ones sanctified, to burn incense. Go out from the sanctuary; for you have acted unfaithfully, and it is not for any glory to you on the part of Jehovah God.”</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter26_verse19"></a><b><sup>19 </sup></b>But Uz·zi′ah became enraged while in his hand there was a censer for burning incense, and, during his rage against the priests, leprosy itself flashed up in his forehead before the priests in the house of Jehovah beside the altar of incense. <a id="chapter26_verse20"></a><b><sup>20 </sup></b>When Az·a·ri′ah the chief priest and all the priests turned toward him, why, there he was stricken with leprosy in his forehead! So they excitedly began to remove him from there, and he himself also hastened to go out, because Jehovah had smitten him.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter26_verse21"></a><b><sup>21 </sup></b>And Uz·zi′ah the king continued to be a leper until the day of his death, and he kept dwelling in a house exempt from duties, as a leper; for he had been severed from the house of Jehovah, while Jo′tham his son was over the king’s house, judging the people of the land.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter26_verse22"></a><b><sup>22 </sup></b>And the rest of the affairs of Uz·zi′ah, the first and the last, Isaiah the son of A′moz the prophet has written. <a id="chapter26_verse23"></a><b><sup>23 </sup></b>Finally Uz·zi′ah lay down with his forefathers; and so they buried him with his forefathers, but in the burial field that belonged to the kings, for they said: “He is a leper.” And Jo′tham his son began to reign in place of him.</p>
</body>
</html>
