<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="application/xhtml+xml; charset=utf-8" />
<title>2 Chronicles 27</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/bi12.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
<p class="w_biblebookname">2 Chronicles</p><p class="sb"><a id="chapter27"></a><a id="chapter27_verse1"></a><span class="w_ch"><b>27 </b></span>Twenty-five years old was Jo′tham when he began to reign, and for sixteen years he reigned in Jerusalem. <a id="page609"></a>And his mother’s name was Je·ru′shah the daughter of Za′dok. <a id="chapter27_verse2"></a><b><sup>2 </sup></b>And he kept doing what was right in Jehovah’s eyes, according to all that Uz·zi′ah his father had done. Only he did not invade the temple of Jehovah. However, the people were yet acting ruinously. <a id="chapter27_verse3"></a><b><sup>3 </sup></b>He himself built the upper gate of Jehovah’s house, and on the wall of O′phel he did a great deal of building. <a id="chapter27_verse4"></a><b><sup>4 </sup></b>And cities he built in the mountainous region of Judah, and in the woodlands he built fortified places and towers. <a id="chapter27_verse5"></a><b><sup>5 </sup></b>And he himself warred against the king of the sons of Am′mon and eventually proved stronger than they were, so that the sons of Am′mon gave him in that year a hundred silver talents and ten thousand cor measures of wheat and ten thousand of barley. This was what the sons of Am′mon paid to him, also in the second year and the third. <a id="chapter27_verse6"></a><b><sup>6 </sup></b>So Jo′tham kept strengthening himself, for he prepared his ways before Jehovah his God.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter27_verse7"></a><b><sup>7 </sup></b>As for the rest of the affairs of Jo′tham and all his wars and his ways, there they are written in the Book of the Kings of Israel and of Judah. <a id="chapter27_verse8"></a><b><sup>8 </sup></b>Twenty-five years old he happened to be when he began to reign, and for sixteen years he reigned in Jerusalem. <a id="chapter27_verse9"></a><b><sup>9 </sup></b>Finally Jo′tham lay down with his forefathers, and they buried him in the City of David. And A′haz his son began to reign in place of him.</p>
</body>
</html>
