<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="application/xhtml+xml; charset=utf-8" />
<title>2 Chronicles 19</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/bi12.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
<p class="w_biblebookname">2 Chronicles</p><p class="sb"><a id="chapter19"></a><a id="chapter19_verse1"></a><span class="w_ch"><b>19 </b></span>Then Je·hosh′a·phat the king of Judah returned in peace to his own house at Jerusalem. <a id="chapter19_verse2"></a><b><sup>2 </sup></b>Je′hu the son of Ha·na′ni the visionary now went out before him and said to King Je·hosh′a·phat: “Is it to the wicked that help is to be given, and is it for those hating Jehovah that you should have love? And for this there is indignation against you from the person of Jehovah. <a id="chapter19_verse3"></a><b><sup>3 </sup></b>Nevertheless, there are good things that have been found with you, because you have cleared out the sacred poles from the land and you have prepared your heart to search for the true God.”</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter19_verse4"></a><b><sup>4 </sup></b>And Je·hosh′a·phat continued dwelling in Jerusalem; and he began to go out again among the people from Be′er-she′ba to the mountainous region of E′phra·im, that he might bring them back to Jehovah the God of their forefathers. <a id="chapter19_verse5"></a><b><sup>5 </sup></b>And he proceeded to station judges throughout the land in all the fortified cities of Judah, city by <a id="page598"></a>city. <a id="chapter19_verse6"></a><b><sup>6 </sup></b>And he went on to say to the judges: “See what <span class="smcap">YOU </span>are doing, because it is not for man that <span class="smcap">YOU </span>judge but it is for Jehovah; and he is with <span class="smcap">YOU </span>in the matter of judgment. <a id="chapter19_verse7"></a><b><sup>7 </sup></b>And now let the dread of Jehovah come to be upon <span class="smcap">YOU</span>. Be careful and act, for with Jehovah our God there is no unrighteousness or partiality or taking of a bribe.”</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter19_verse8"></a><b><sup>8 </sup></b>And in Jerusalem also Je·hosh′a·phat stationed some of the Levites and the priests and some of the heads of the paternal houses of Israel for the judgment of Jehovah and for the legal cases of the inhabitants of Jerusalem. <a id="chapter19_verse9"></a><b><sup>9 </sup></b>Further, he laid a command upon them, saying: “This is how <span class="smcap">YOU </span>should do in the fear of Jehovah with faithfulness and with a complete heart. <a id="chapter19_verse10"></a><b><sup>10 </sup></b>As for every legal case that will come to <span class="smcap">YOU </span>of <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>brothers who are dwelling in their cities, involving the shedding of blood, involving law and commandment and regulations and judicial decisions, <span class="smcap">YOU </span>must warn them that they may not do wrong against Jehovah and indignation may not have to take place against <span class="smcap">YOU </span>and against <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>brothers. This is how <span class="smcap">YOU </span>should do that <span class="smcap">YOU </span>may not incur guilt. <a id="chapter19_verse11"></a><b><sup>11 </sup></b>And here is Am·a·ri′ah the chief priest over <span class="smcap">YOU </span>for every matter of Jehovah; and Zeb·a·di′ah the son of Ish′ma·el the leader of the house of Judah for every matter of the king; and as officers the Levites are available for <span class="smcap">YOU</span>. Be strong and act, and let Jehovah prove to be with what is good.”</p>
</body>
</html>
