<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="application/xhtml+xml; charset=utf-8" />
<title>Nehemiah 7</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/bi12.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
<p class="w_biblebookname">Nehemiah</p><p class="sb"><a id="chapter7"></a><a id="chapter7_verse1"></a><span class="w_ch"><b>7 </b></span>And it came about that, as soon as the wall had been rebuilt, I at once set up the doors. Then there were appointed the gatekeepers and the singers and the Levites. <a id="chapter7_verse2"></a><b><sup>2 </sup></b>And I went on to put in command of Jerusalem Ha·na′ni my brother and Han·a·ni′ah the prince of the Castle, for he was such a trustworthy man and feared the true God more than many others. <a id="chapter7_verse3"></a><b><sup>3 </sup></b>So I said to them: “The gates of Jerusalem should not be opened until the sun gets hot; and while they are standing by they should shut the doors and bolt them. And station guards of the inhabitants of Jerusalem, each one at his own guardpost and each one in front of his own house.” <a id="chapter7_verse4"></a><b><sup>4 </sup></b>Now the city was wide and great, and there were few people inside it, and there were no houses built.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter7_verse5"></a><b><sup>5 </sup></b>But my God put it into my heart that I should collect together the nobles and the deputy rulers and the people to get themselves enrolled genealogically. Then I found the book of genealogical enrollment of those who came up at the first, and found written in it:</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter7_verse6"></a><b><sup>6 </sup></b>These are the sons of the jurisdictional district who came up out of the captivity of the exiled people whom Neb·u·chad·nez′zar the king of Babylon had taken into exile and who later returned to Jerusalem and to Judah, each to his own city; <a id="chapter7_verse7"></a><b><sup>7 </sup></b>those who came in with Ze·rub′ba·bel, Jesh′u·a, Ne·he·mi′ah, Az·a·ri′ah, Ra·a·mi′ah, Na·ham′a·ni, Mor′de·cai, Bil′shan, Mis′pe·reth, Big′vai, Ne′hum, Ba′a·nah.</p>
<p class="sb">The number of the men of the people of Israel: <a id="chapter7_verse8"></a><b><sup>8 </sup></b>The sons of Pa′rosh, two thousand one hundred and seventy-two; <a id="chapter7_verse9"></a><b><sup>9 </sup></b>the sons of Sheph·a·ti′ah, three hundred and seventy-two; <a id="chapter7_verse10"></a><b><sup>10 </sup></b>the sons of A′rah, six hundred and fifty-two; <a id="chapter7_verse11"></a><b><sup>11 </sup></b>the sons of Pa′hath-mo′ab, of the sons of Jesh′u·a and Jo′ab, two thousand eight hundred and eighteen; <a id="chapter7_verse12"></a><b><sup>12 </sup></b>the sons of E′lam, a thousand two hundred and fifty-four; <a id="chapter7_verse13"></a><b><sup>13 </sup></b>the sons of Zat′tu, eight hundred and forty-five; <a id="chapter7_verse14"></a><b><sup>14 </sup></b>the sons of Zac′cai, seven hundred and sixty; <a id="chapter7_verse15"></a><b><sup>15 </sup></b>the sons of Bin′nu·i, six hundred and forty-eight; <a id="chapter7_verse16"></a><b><sup>16 </sup></b>the sons of Be′bai, six hundred and twenty-eight; <a id="chapter7_verse17"></a><b><sup>17 </sup></b>the sons of Az′gad, two thousand three hundred and twenty-two; <a id="chapter7_verse18"></a><b><sup>18 </sup></b>the sons of Ad·o·ni′kam, six hundred and sixty-seven; <a id="chapter7_verse19"></a><b><sup>19 </sup></b>the sons of Big′vai, two thousand and sixty-seven; <a id="chapter7_verse20"></a><b><sup>20 </sup></b>the sons of A′din, six hundred and fifty-five; <a id="chapter7_verse21"></a><b><sup>21 </sup></b>the sons of A′ter, of Hez·e·ki′ah, ninety-eight; <a id="chapter7_verse22"></a><b><sup>22 </sup></b>the sons of Ha′shum, three hundred and twenty-eight; <a id="chapter7_verse23"></a><b><sup>23 </sup></b>the sons of Be′zai, three hundred <a id="page647"></a>and twenty-four; <a id="chapter7_verse24"></a><b><sup>24 </sup></b>the sons of Ha′riph, a hundred and twelve; <a id="chapter7_verse25"></a><b><sup>25 </sup></b>the sons of Gib′e·on, ninety-five; <a id="chapter7_verse26"></a><b><sup>26 </sup></b>the men of Beth′le·hem and Ne·to′phah, a hundred and eighty-eight; <a id="chapter7_verse27"></a><b><sup>27 </sup></b>the men of An′a·thoth, a hundred and twenty-eight; <a id="chapter7_verse28"></a><b><sup>28 </sup></b>the men of Beth-az′ma·veth, forty-two; <a id="chapter7_verse29"></a><b><sup>29 </sup></b>the men of Kir′i·ath-je′a·rim, Che·phi′rah and Be·er′oth, seven hundred and forty-three; <a id="chapter7_verse30"></a><b><sup>30 </sup></b>the men of Ra′mah and Ge′ba, six hundred and twenty-one; <a id="chapter7_verse31"></a><b><sup>31 </sup></b>the men of Mich′mas, a hundred and twenty-two; <a id="chapter7_verse32"></a><b><sup>32 </sup></b>the men of Beth′el and A′i, a hundred and twenty-three; <a id="chapter7_verse33"></a><b><sup>33 </sup></b>the men of the other Ne′bo, fifty-two; <a id="chapter7_verse34"></a><b><sup>34 </sup></b>the sons of the other E′lam, a thousand two hundred and fifty-four; <a id="chapter7_verse35"></a><b><sup>35 </sup></b>the sons of Ha′rim, three hundred and twenty; <a id="chapter7_verse36"></a><b><sup>36 </sup></b>the sons of Jer′i·cho, three hundred and forty-five; <a id="chapter7_verse37"></a><b><sup>37 </sup></b>the sons of Lod, Ha′did and O′no, seven hundred and twenty-one; <a id="chapter7_verse38"></a><b><sup>38 </sup></b>the sons of Se·na′ah, three thousand nine hundred and thirty.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter7_verse39"></a><b><sup>39 </sup></b>The priests: The sons of Je·da′iah of the house of Jesh′u·a, nine hundred and seventy-three; <a id="chapter7_verse40"></a><b><sup>40 </sup></b>the sons of Im′mer, a thousand and fifty-two; <a id="chapter7_verse41"></a><b><sup>41 </sup></b>the sons of Pash′hur, a thousand two hundred and forty-seven; <a id="chapter7_verse42"></a><b><sup>42 </sup></b>the sons of Ha′rim, a thousand and seventeen.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter7_verse43"></a><b><sup>43 </sup></b>The Levites: The sons of Jesh′u·a, of Kad′mi·el, of the sons of Ho′de·vah, seventy-four. <a id="chapter7_verse44"></a><b><sup>44 </sup></b>The singers, the sons of A′saph, a hundred and forty-eight. <a id="chapter7_verse45"></a><b><sup>45 </sup></b>The gatekeepers, the sons of Shal′lum, the sons of A′ter, the sons of Tal′mon, the sons of Ak′kub, the sons of Ha·ti′ta, the sons of Sho′bai, a hundred and thirty-eight.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter7_verse46"></a><b><sup>46 </sup></b>The Neth′i·nim: The sons of Zi′ha, the sons of Ha·su′pha, the sons of Tab·ba′oth, <a id="chapter7_verse47"></a><b><sup>47 </sup></b>the sons of Ke′ros, the sons of Si′a, the sons of Pa′don, <a id="chapter7_verse48"></a><b><sup>48 </sup></b>the sons of Le·ba′nah, the sons of Hag′a·bah, the sons of Sal′mai, <a id="chapter7_verse49"></a><b><sup>49 </sup></b>the sons of Ha′nan, the sons of Gid′del, the sons of Ga′har, <a id="chapter7_verse50"></a><b><sup>50 </sup></b>the sons of Re·a′iah, the sons of Re′zin, the sons of Ne·ko′da, <a id="chapter7_verse51"></a><b><sup>51 </sup></b>the sons of Gaz′zam, the sons of Uz′za, the sons of Pa·se′ah, <a id="chapter7_verse52"></a><b><sup>52 </sup></b>the sons of Be′sai, the sons of Me·u′nim, the sons of Ne·phush′e·sim, <a id="chapter7_verse53"></a><b><sup>53 </sup></b>the sons of Bak′buk, the sons of Ha·ku′pha, the sons of Har′hur, <a id="chapter7_verse54"></a><b><sup>54 </sup></b>the sons of Baz′lith, the sons of Me·hi′da, the sons of Har′sha, <a id="chapter7_verse55"></a><b><sup>55 </sup></b>the sons of Bar′kos, the sons of Sis′e·ra, the sons of Te′mah, <a id="chapter7_verse56"></a><b><sup>56 </sup></b>the sons of Ne·zi′ah, the sons of Ha·ti′pha.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter7_verse57"></a><b><sup>57 </sup></b>The sons of the servants of Sol′o·mon: The sons of So′tai, the sons of So·phe′reth, the sons of Pe·ri′da, <a id="chapter7_verse58"></a><b><sup>58 </sup></b>the sons of Ja′a·la, the sons of Dar′kon, the sons of Gid′del, <a id="chapter7_verse59"></a><b><sup>59 </sup></b>the sons of Sheph·a·ti′ah, the sons of Hat′til, the sons of Po′che·reth-haz·ze·ba′im, the sons of A′mon. <a id="chapter7_verse60"></a><b><sup>60 </sup></b>All the Neth′i·nim and the sons of the servants of Sol′o·mon were three hundred and ninety-two.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter7_verse61"></a><b><sup>61 </sup></b>And these were the ones going up from Tel-me′lah, Tel-har′sha, Che′rub, Ad′don and Im′mer, and they were not able to tell the house of their fathers and their origin, whether they were of Israel: <a id="chapter7_verse62"></a><b><sup>62 </sup></b>the sons of De·la′iah, the sons of To·bi′ah, the sons of Ne·ko′da, six hundred and forty-two. <a id="chapter7_verse63"></a><b><sup>63 </sup></b>And of the priests: the sons of Ha·bai′ah, the sons of Hak′koz, the sons of Bar·zil′lai, who took a wife from the daughters of Bar·zil′lai the Gil′e·ad·ite and came to be called by their name. <a id="chapter7_verse64"></a><b><sup>64 </sup></b>These were the ones that looked for their register, to establish their genealogy publicly, and it was <a id="page648"></a>not found, so that they were barred as polluted from the priesthood. <a id="chapter7_verse65"></a><b><sup>65 </sup></b>Consequently the Tir·sha′tha said to them that they should not eat from the most holy things until the priest with U′rim and Thum′mim stood up.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter7_verse66"></a><b><sup>66 </sup></b>The entire congregation as one group was forty-two thousand three hundred and sixty, <a id="chapter7_verse67"></a><b><sup>67 </sup></b>apart from their men slaves and their slave girls, these being seven thousand three hundred and thirty-seven; and they had two hundred and forty-five male singers and female singers. <a id="chapter7_verse68"></a><b><sup>68 </sup></b>Their horses were seven hundred and thirty-six, their mules two hundred and forty-five. <a id="chapter7_verse69"></a><b><sup>69 </sup></b>The camels were four hundred and thirty-five. The asses were six thousand seven hundred and twenty.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter7_verse70"></a><b><sup>70 </sup></b>And there was a part of the heads of the paternal houses that gave to the work. The Tir·sha′tha himself gave to the treasure a thousand gold drachmas, fifty bowls, five hundred and thirty priests’ robes. <a id="chapter7_verse71"></a><b><sup>71 </sup></b>And there were some of the heads of the paternal houses that gave to the treasure for the work twenty thousand gold drachmas and two thousand two hundred silver mi′nas. <a id="chapter7_verse72"></a><b><sup>72 </sup></b>And what the rest of the people gave was twenty thousand gold drachmas and two thousand silver mi′nas and sixty-seven priests’ robes.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter7_verse73"></a><b><sup>73 </sup></b>And the priests and the Levites and the gatekeepers and the singers and some of the people and the Neth′i·nim and all Israel took up dwelling in their cities. When the seventh month arrived, the sons of Israel were then in their cities.</p>
</body>
</html>
