<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="application/xhtml+xml; charset=utf-8" />
<title>Nehemiah 3</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/bi12.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
<p class="w_biblebookname">Nehemiah</p><p class="sb"><a id="chapter3"></a><a id="chapter3_verse1"></a><span class="w_ch"><b>3 </b></span>And E·li′a·shib the high priest and his brothers, the priests, proceeded to get up and build the Sheep Gate. They themselves sanctified it and went setting up its doors; and as far as the Tower of Me′ah they sanctified it, as far as the Tower <a id="page641"></a>of Ha·nan′el. <a id="chapter3_verse2"></a><b><sup>2 </sup></b>And at their side the men of Jer′i·cho did building. And at their side Zac′cur the son of Im′ri did building.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter3_verse3"></a><b><sup>3 </sup></b>And the Fish Gate was what the sons of Has·se·na′ah built; they themselves timbered it and then set up its doors, its bolts and its bars. <a id="chapter3_verse4"></a><b><sup>4 </sup></b>And at their side Mer′e·moth the son of U·ri′jah the son of Hak′koz did repair work, and at their side Me·shul′lam the son of Ber·e·chi′ah the son of Me·shez′a·bel did repair work; and at their side Za′dok the son of Ba′a·na did repair work. <a id="chapter3_verse5"></a><b><sup>5 </sup></b>And at their side the Te·ko′ites did repair work; but their majestic ones themselves did not bring the back of their neck into the service of their masters.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter3_verse6"></a><b><sup>6 </sup></b>And the Gate of the Old City was what Joi′a·da the son of Pa·se′ah and Me·shul′lam the son of Bes·o·dei′ah repaired; they themselves timbered it and then set up its doors and its bolts and its bars. <a id="chapter3_verse7"></a><b><sup>7 </sup></b>And at their side Mel·a·ti′ah the Gib′e·on·ite and Ja′don the Me·ron′o·thite, did repair work, men of Gib′e·on and Miz′pah, belonging to the throne of the governor beyond the River. <a id="chapter3_verse8"></a><b><sup>8 </sup></b>At his side Uz′zi·el the son of Har·hai′ah, goldsmiths, did repair work; and at his side Han·a·ni′ah a member of the ointment mixers did repair work; and they proceeded to flagstone Jerusalem as far as the Broad Wall. <a id="chapter3_verse9"></a><b><sup>9 </sup></b>And at their side Re·pha′iah the son of Hur, a prince of half the district of Jerusalem, did repair work. <a id="chapter3_verse10"></a><b><sup>10 </sup></b>And at their side Je·da′iah the son of Ha·ru′maph did repair work in front of his own house; and at his side Hat′tush the son of Hash·ab·nei′ah did repair work.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter3_verse11"></a><b><sup>11 </sup></b>Another measured section was what Mal·chi′jah the son of Ha′rim and Has′shub the son of Pa′hath-mo′ab repaired, and also the Tower of the Bake Ovens. <a id="chapter3_verse12"></a><b><sup>12 </sup></b>And at his side Shal′lum the son of Hal·lo′hesh, a prince of half the district of Jerusalem, did repair work, he and his daughters.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter3_verse13"></a><b><sup>13 </sup></b>The Valley Gate was what Ha′nun and the inhabitants of Za·no′ah repaired; they themselves built it and then set up its doors, its bolts and its bars, also a thousand cubits in the wall as far as the Gate of the Ash-heaps. <a id="chapter3_verse14"></a><b><sup>14 </sup></b>And the Gate of the Ash-heaps was what Mal·chi′jah the son of Re′chab, a prince of the district of Beth-hac·che′rem, repaired; he himself went building it and setting up its doors, its bolts and its bars.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter3_verse15"></a><b><sup>15 </sup></b>And the Fountain Gate was what Shal′lun the son of Col·ho′zeh, a prince of the district of Miz′pah, repaired; he himself proceeded to build it and to roof it over and to set up its doors, its bolts and its bars, and also the wall of the Pool of the Canal to the King’s Garden and as far as the Stairway that goes down from the City of David.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter3_verse16"></a><b><sup>16 </sup></b>After him Ne·he·mi′ah the son of Az′buk, a prince of half the district of Beth-zur, did repair work as far as in front of the Burial Places of David and as far as the pool that had been made and as far as the House of the Mighty Ones.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter3_verse17"></a><b><sup>17 </sup></b>After him the Levites did repair work, Re′hum the son of Ba′ni; at his side Hash·a·bi′ah, a prince of half the district of Kei′lah, did repair work for his district. <a id="chapter3_verse18"></a><b><sup>18 </sup></b>After him their brothers did repair work, Bav′vai the son of Hen′a·dad, a prince of half the district of Kei′lah.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter3_verse19"></a><b><sup>19 </sup></b>And E′zer the son of Jesh′u·a, a prince of Miz′pah, proceeded at his side to repair another measured section in front of the going up to the Armory at the Buttress.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="page642"></a><a id="chapter3_verse20"></a><b><sup>20 </sup></b>After him Bar′uch the son of Zab′bai worked with fervor and repaired another measured section, from the Buttress as far as the entrance of the house of E·li′a·shib the high priest.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter3_verse21"></a><b><sup>21 </sup></b>After him Mer′e·moth the son of U·ri′jah the son of Hak′koz repaired another measured section, from the entrance of the house of E·li′a·shib as far as the end of E·li′a·shib’s house.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter3_verse22"></a><b><sup>22 </sup></b>And after him the priests, men of the Jordan District, did repair work. <a id="chapter3_verse23"></a><b><sup>23 </sup></b>After them Benjamin and Has′shub did repair work in front of their own house. After them Az·a·ri′ah the son of Ma·a·sei′ah the son of A·na·ni′ah did repair work close by his own house. <a id="chapter3_verse24"></a><b><sup>24 </sup></b>After him Bin′nu·i the son of Hen′a·dad repaired another measured section, from the house of Az·a·ri′ah as far as the Buttress and as far as the corner.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter3_verse25"></a><b><sup>25 </sup></b>After him Pa′lal the son of U′zai did repair work in front of the Buttress and the tower that goes out from the King’s House, the upper one that belongs to the Courtyard of the Guard. After him there was Pe·dai′ah the son of Pa′rosh.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter3_verse26"></a><b><sup>26 </sup></b>And the Neth′i·nim themselves happened to be dwellers in O′phel; they did repair work as far as in front of the Water Gate on the east and the protruding tower.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter3_verse27"></a><b><sup>27 </sup></b>After them the Te·ko′ites repaired another measured section, from in front of the great protruding tower as far as the wall of O′phel.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter3_verse28"></a><b><sup>28 </sup></b>Above the Horse Gate the priests did repair work, each one in front of his own house.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter3_verse29"></a><b><sup>29 </sup></b>After them Za′dok the son of Im′mer did repair work in front of his own house.</p>
<p class="sb">And after him She·mai′ah the son of Shec·a·ni′ah, the keeper of the East Gate, did repair work.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter3_verse30"></a><b><sup>30 </sup></b>After him Han·a·ni′ah the son of Shel·e·mi′ah and Ha′nun the sixth son of Za′laph repaired another measured section.</p>
<p class="sb">After him Me·shul′lam the son of Ber·e·chi′ah did repair work in front of his own hall.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter3_verse31"></a><b><sup>31 </sup></b>After him Mal·chi′jah, a member of the goldsmith guild, did repair work as far as the house of the Neth′i·nim and the traders, in front of the Inspection Gate and as far as the roof chamber of the corner.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter3_verse32"></a><b><sup>32 </sup></b>And between the roof chamber of the corner and the Sheep Gate the goldsmiths and the traders did repair work.</p>
</body>
</html>
