<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="application/xhtml+xml; charset=utf-8" />
<title>Esther 5</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/bi12.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
<p class="w_biblebookname">Esther</p><p class="sb"><a id="chapter5"></a><a id="chapter5_verse1"></a><span class="w_ch"><b>5 </b></span>And it came about on the third day that Esther went dressing up royally, after which she took her stand in the inner courtyard of the king’s house opposite the king’s house, while the king was sitting on his royal throne in the royal house opposite the entrance of the house. <a id="chapter5_verse2"></a><b><sup>2 </sup></b>And it came about that, as soon as the king saw Esther the queen standing in the courtyard, she gained favor in his eyes, so that the king held out to Esther the golden scepter that was in his hand. Esther now came near and touched the top of the scepter.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter5_verse3"></a><b><sup>3 </sup></b>Then the king said to her: “What do you have, O Esther the queen, and what is your <a id="page664"></a>request? To the half of the kingship—let it even be given to you!” <a id="chapter5_verse4"></a><b><sup>4 </sup></b>In turn Esther said: “If to the king it does seem good, let the king with Ha′man come today to the banquet that I have made for him.” <a id="chapter5_verse5"></a><b><sup>5 </sup></b>Accordingly the king said: “Y<span class="smcap">OU </span>men, have Ha′man act quickly on the word of Esther.” Later the king and Ha′man came to the banquet that Esther had made.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter5_verse6"></a><b><sup>6 </sup></b>In time the king said to Esther during the banquet of wine: “What is your petition? Let it even be granted you! And what is your request? To the half of the kingship—let it even be done!” <a id="chapter5_verse7"></a><b><sup>7 </sup></b>To this Esther answered and said: “My petition and my request is, <a id="chapter5_verse8"></a><b><sup>8 </sup></b>If I have found favor in the king’s eyes and if to the king it does seem good to grant my petition and to act on my request, let the king and Ha′man come to the banquet that I shall hold for them tomorrow, and tomorrow I shall do according to the king’s word.”</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter5_verse9"></a><b><sup>9 </sup></b>Consequently Ha′man went out on that day joyful and merry of heart; but as soon as Ha′man saw Mor′de·cai in the king’s gate and that he did not rise and did not quake on account of him, Ha′man was immediately filled with rage against Mor′de·cai. <a id="chapter5_verse10"></a><b><sup>10 </sup></b>However, Ha′man kept control of himself and came into his house. Then he sent and had his friends and Ze′resh his wife brought in; <a id="chapter5_verse11"></a><b><sup>11 </sup></b>and Ha′man proceeded to declare to them the glory of his riches and the large number of his sons and everything with which the king had magnified him and how he had exalted him over the princes and the servants of the king.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter5_verse12"></a><b><sup>12 </sup></b>And Ha′man went on to say: “What is more, Esther the queen brought in with the king to the banquet that she had made no one but me, and tomorrow also I am invited to her with the king. <a id="chapter5_verse13"></a><b><sup>13 </sup></b>But all this—none of it suits me as long as I am seeing Mor′de·cai the Jew sitting in the king’s gate.” <a id="chapter5_verse14"></a><b><sup>14 </sup></b>At that Ze′resh his wife and all his friends said to him: “Let them make a stake fifty cubits high. Then in the morning say to the king that they should hang Mor′de·cai on it. Then go in with the king to the banquet joyful.” So the thing seemed good before Ha′man, and he proceeded to have the stake made.</p>
</body>
</html>
