<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="application/xhtml+xml; charset=utf-8" />
<title>Job 36</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/bi12.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
<p class="w_biblebookname">Job</p><p class="sb"><a id="chapter36"></a><a id="chapter36_verse1"></a><span class="w_ch"><b>36 </b></span>And E·li′hu proceeded to say further:</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter36_verse2"></a> <b><sup>2 </sup></b>“Have patience with me a little while, and I shall declare to you</p>
<p class="sz">That there are yet words to say for God.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter36_verse3"></a> <b><sup>3 </sup></b>I shall carry my knowledge from far off,</p>
<p class="sz">And to my Fashioner I shall ascribe righteousness.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter36_verse4"></a> <b><sup>4 </sup></b>For my words are for a fact no falsehood;</p>
<p class="sz">The One perfect in knowledge is with you.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter36_verse5"></a> <b><sup>5 </sup></b>Look! God is mighty and will not reject;</p>
<p class="sz">He is mighty in power of heart;</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter36_verse6"></a> <b><sup>6 </sup></b>He will not preserve anyone wicked alive,</p>
<p class="sz">But the judgment of the afflicted ones he will give.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter36_verse7"></a> <b><sup>7 </sup></b>He will not take away his eyes from anyone righteous;</p>
<p class="sz">Even kings on the throne—</p>
<p class="sz"><a id="page707"></a>He will also seat them forever, and they will be exalted.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter36_verse8"></a> <b><sup>8 </sup></b>And if they are bound in fetters,</p>
<p class="sz">They are captured with ropes of affliction.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter36_verse9"></a> <b><sup>9 </sup></b>Then he will tell them about the way they act</p>
<p class="sz">And their transgressions, because they take a superior air.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter36_verse10"></a><b><sup>10 </sup></b>And he will uncover their ear to exhortation,</p>
<p class="sz">And he will say that they should turn back from what is hurtful.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter36_verse11"></a><b><sup>11 </sup></b>If they obey and serve,</p>
<p class="sz">They will finish their days in what is good</p>
<p class="sz">And their years in pleasantness.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter36_verse12"></a><b><sup>12 </sup></b>But if they do not obey, they will pass away even by a missile,</p>
<p class="sz">And they will expire without knowledge.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter36_verse13"></a><b><sup>13 </sup></b>And those apostate in heart will themselves lay up anger.</p>
<p class="sz">They should not cry for help because he has bound them.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter36_verse14"></a><b><sup>14 </sup></b>Their soul will die in youth itself,</p>
<p class="sz">And their life among male temple prostitutes.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter36_verse15"></a><b><sup>15 </sup></b>He will rescue the afflicted one in his affliction,</p>
<p class="sz">And he will uncover their ear in the oppression.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter36_verse16"></a><b><sup>16 </sup></b>And he will also certainly allure you from the mouth of distress!</p>
<p class="sz">Broader space, not constraint, will be in its place,</p>
<p class="sz">And the consolation of your table will be full of fatness.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter36_verse17"></a><b><sup>17 </sup></b>With the judicial sentence upon the wicked one you will certainly be filled;</p>
<p class="sz">Judicial sentence and justice will themselves take hold.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter36_verse18"></a><b><sup>18 </sup></b>For take care that rage does not allure you into spiteful handclapping,</p>
<p class="sz">And let not a large ransom itself lead you astray.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter36_verse19"></a><b><sup>19 </sup></b>Will your cry for help take effect? No, nor in distress</p>
<p class="sz">Even all your powerful efforts.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter36_verse20"></a><b><sup>20 </sup></b>Do not pant for the night,</p>
<p class="sz">For peoples to retreat from where they are.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter36_verse21"></a><b><sup>21 </sup></b>Be on your guard that you do not turn to what is hurtful,</p>
<p class="sz">For this you have chosen rather than affliction.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter36_verse22"></a><b><sup>22 </sup></b>Look! God himself acts exaltedly with his power;</p>
<p class="sz">Who is an instructor like him?</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter36_verse23"></a><b><sup>23 </sup></b>Who has called his way to account against him,</p>
<p class="sz">And who has said, ‘You have committed unrighteousness’?</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter36_verse24"></a><b><sup>24 </sup></b>Remember that you should magnify his activity</p>
<p class="sz">Of which men have sung.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter36_verse25"></a><b><sup>25 </sup></b>All mankind themselves have gazed upon it;</p>
<p class="sz">Mortal man himself keeps looking from far off.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter36_verse26"></a><b><sup>26 </sup></b>Behold! God is more exalted than we can know;</p>
<p class="sz">In number his years are beyond searching.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter36_verse27"></a><b><sup>27 </sup></b>For he draws up the drops of water;</p>
<p class="sz">They filter as rain for his mist,</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter36_verse28"></a><b><sup>28 </sup></b>So that the clouds trickle,</p>
<p class="sz">They drip upon mankind abundantly.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter36_verse29"></a><b><sup>29 </sup></b>Indeed, who can understand the cloud layers,</p>
<p class="sz">The crashings from his booth?</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter36_verse30"></a><b><sup>30 </sup></b>Look! He has spread out over it his light,</p>
<p class="sz">And the roots of the sea he has covered.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter36_verse31"></a><b><sup>31 </sup></b>For by them he pleads the cause of peoples;</p>
<p class="sz">He gives food in abundance.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="page708"></a><a id="chapter36_verse32"></a><b><sup>32 </sup></b>In his hands he has covered over the lightning,</p>
<p class="sz">And he lays a command upon it against an assailant.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter36_verse33"></a><b><sup>33 </sup></b>His booming tells about him,</p>
<p class="sz">The livestock also concerning the one coming up.</p>
</body>
</html>
