<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="application/xhtml+xml; charset=utf-8" />
<title>Job 42</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/bi12.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
<p class="w_biblebookname">Job</p><p class="sb"><a id="chapter42"></a><a id="chapter42_verse1"></a><span class="w_ch"><b>42 </b></span>And Job proceeded to answer Jehovah and say:</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter42_verse2"></a> <b><sup>2 </sup></b>“I have come to know that you are able to do all things,</p>
<p class="sz">And there is no idea that is unattainable for you.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter42_verse3"></a> <b><sup>3 </sup></b>‘Who is this that is obscuring counsel without knowledge?’</p>
<p class="sz">Therefore I talked, but I was not understanding</p>
<p class="sz">Things too wonderful for me, which I do not know.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter42_verse4"></a> <b><sup>4 </sup></b>‘Hear, please, and I myself shall speak.</p>
<p class="sz">I shall question you, and you inform me.’</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter42_verse5"></a> <b><sup>5 </sup></b>In hearsay I have heard about you,</p>
<p class="sz">But now my own eye does see you.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter42_verse6"></a> <b><sup>6 </sup></b>That is why I make a retraction,</p>
<p class="sz">And I do repent in dust and ashes.”</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter42_verse7"></a><b><sup>7 </sup></b>And it came about after Jehovah had spoken these words to Job, that Jehovah proceeded to say to El′i·phaz the Te′man·ite:</p>
<p class="sb">“My anger has grown hot against you and your two companions, for <span class="smcap">YOU </span>men have not spoken concerning me what is truthful as has my servant Job. <a id="chapter42_verse8"></a><b><sup>8 </sup></b>And now take for yourselves seven bulls and seven rams and go to my servant Job, and <span class="smcap">YOU </span>men must offer up a burnt sacrifice in <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>own behalf; and Job my servant will himself pray for <span class="smcap">YOU</span>. His face only I shall accept so as not to commit disgraceful folly with <span class="smcap">YOU</span>, for <span class="smcap">YOU </span>have not spoken concerning me what is truthful, as has my servant Job.”</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter42_verse9"></a><b><sup>9 </sup></b>Accordingly El′i·phaz the Te′man·ite and Bil′dad the Shu′hite and Zo′phar the Na′a·ma·thite went and did just as Jehovah had spoken to them; and so Jehovah accepted Job’s face.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter42_verse10"></a><b><sup>10 </sup></b>And Jehovah himself turned back the captive condition of Job when he prayed in behalf of his companions, and Jehovah began to give in addition all that had been Job’s, in double amount. <a id="chapter42_verse11"></a><b><sup>11 </sup></b>And there kept coming to him all his brothers and all his sisters and all those formerly knowing him, and they began to eat bread with him in his house and to sympathize with him and to comfort him over all the calamity that Jehovah had let come upon him; and they proceeded each one to give him a piece of money and each one a gold ring.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter42_verse12"></a><b><sup>12 </sup></b>As for Jehovah, he blessed the end of Job afterward more than his beginning, so that he came to have fourteen thousand sheep and six thousand camels and a thousand spans of cattle and a thousand she-asses. <a id="chapter42_verse13"></a><b><sup>13 </sup></b>He also came to have seven sons and three daughters. <a id="chapter42_verse14"></a><b><sup>14 </sup></b>And he went calling the name of the first Je·mi′mah and the name of the second Ke·zi′ah and the name of the third Ker′en-hap′puch. <a id="page715"></a><a id="chapter42_verse15"></a><b><sup>15 </sup></b>And no women were found as pretty as Job’s daughters in all the land, and their father proceeded to give them an inheritance in among their brothers.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter42_verse16"></a><b><sup>16 </sup></b>And Job continued living after this a hundred and forty years and came to see his sons and his grandsons—four generations. <a id="chapter42_verse17"></a><b><sup>17 </sup></b>And gradually Job died, old and satisfied with days.</p>
</body>
</html>
