<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="application/xhtml+xml; charset=utf-8" />
<title>Job 18</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/bi12.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
<p class="w_biblebookname">Job</p><p class="sb"><a id="chapter18"></a><a id="chapter18_verse1"></a><span class="w_ch"><b>18 </b></span>And Bil′dad the Shu′hite proceeded to answer and say:</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter18_verse2"></a> <b><sup>2 </sup></b>“How long will <span class="smcap">YOU </span>people be at putting an end to words?</p>
<p class="sz">Y<span class="smcap">OU </span>should understand, that afterward we may speak.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter18_verse3"></a> <b><sup>3 </sup></b>Why should we be reckoned as beasts</p>
<p class="sz">And be regarded as unclean in <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>eyes?</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter18_verse4"></a> <b><sup>4 </sup></b>He is tearing his soul to pieces in his anger.</p>
<p class="sz">For your sake will the earth be abandoned,</p>
<p class="sz">Or a rock move away from its place?</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter18_verse5"></a> <b><sup>5 </sup></b>The light also of wicked ones will be extinguished</p>
<p class="sz">And the spark of his fire will not shine.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter18_verse6"></a> <b><sup>6 </sup></b>A light itself will certainly grow dark in his tent,</p>
<p class="sz">And in it his own lamp will be extinguished.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter18_verse7"></a> <b><sup>7 </sup></b>His steps of vigor will become cramped.</p>
<p class="sz">Even his counsel will cast him off.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter18_verse8"></a> <b><sup>8 </sup></b>For he will indeed be let go into a net by his feet,</p>
<p class="sz">And onto a network he will walk.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter18_verse9"></a> <b><sup>9 </sup></b>A trap will seize him by the heel;</p>
<p class="sz">A snare keeps hold upon him.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter18_verse10"></a><b><sup>10 </sup></b>A cord for him is hidden on the earth,</p>
<p class="sz">And a catching device for him on his pathway.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter18_verse11"></a><b><sup>11 </sup></b>Round about, sudden terrors certainly make him start up in fright,</p>
<p class="sz">And indeed chase him at his feet.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter18_verse12"></a><b><sup>12 </sup></b>His vigor becomes famished,</p>
<p class="sz">And disaster stands ready to make him limp.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter18_verse13"></a><b><sup>13 </sup></b>It will eat the pieces of his skin;</p>
<p class="sz">The firstborn of death will eat his limbs.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter18_verse14"></a><b><sup>14 </sup></b>His confidence will be torn away from his own tent</p>
<p class="sz">And it will march him to the king of terrors.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter18_verse15"></a><b><sup>15 </sup></b>There will reside in his tent something that is not his;</p>
<p class="sz">Sulphur will be strewed upon his own abiding place.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter18_verse16"></a><b><sup>16 </sup></b>Underneath will his very roots dry up,</p>
<p class="sz">And, up above, his bough will wither.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter18_verse17"></a><b><sup>17 </sup></b>The very mentioning of him will certainly perish from the earth,</p>
<p class="sz">And he will have no name out in the street.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter18_verse18"></a><b><sup>18 </sup></b>They will push him out of the light into the darkness,</p>
<p class="sz">And from the productive land they will chase him away.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter18_verse19"></a><b><sup>19 </sup></b>He will have no posterity and no progeny among his people,</p>
<p class="sz"><a id="page688"></a>And there will be no survivor in his place of alien residence.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter18_verse20"></a><b><sup>20 </sup></b>At his day the people in the West will indeed stare in amazement,</p>
<p class="sz">And a shudder will certainly seize even the people in the East.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter18_verse21"></a><b><sup>21 </sup></b>Only these are the tabernacles of a wrongdoer,</p>
<p class="sz">And this is the place of one that has not known God.”</p>
</body>
</html>
