<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="application/xhtml+xml; charset=utf-8" />
<title>Job 13</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/bi12.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
<p class="w_biblebookname">Job</p><p class="sl"><a id="chapter13"></a><a id="chapter13_verse1"></a><span class="w_ch"><b>13 </b></span>“Look! All this my eye has seen,</p>
<p class="sz">My ear has heard and considers it.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter13_verse2"></a> <b><sup>2 </sup></b>What <span class="smcap">YOU </span>men know I myself well know also;</p>
<p class="sz">I am not inferior to <span class="smcap">YOU</span>.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter13_verse3"></a> <b><sup>3 </sup></b>However, I, for my part, would speak to the Almighty himself,</p>
<p class="sz">And in arguing with God I would find delight.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter13_verse4"></a> <b><sup>4 </sup></b>On the other hand, <span class="smcap">YOU </span>men are smearers of falsehood;</p>
<p class="sz">All of <span class="smcap">YOU </span>are physicians of no value.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter13_verse5"></a> <b><sup>5 </sup></b>If only <span class="smcap">YOU </span>would absolutely keep silent,</p>
<p class="sz">That it might prove to be wisdom on <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>part!</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter13_verse6"></a> <b><sup>6 </sup></b>Hear, please, my counterarguments,</p>
<p class="sz">And to the pleadings of my lips pay attention.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter13_verse7"></a> <b><sup>7 </sup></b>Will <span class="smcap">YOU </span>men speak unrighteousness for God himself,</p>
<p class="sz">And for him will <span class="smcap">YOU </span>speak deceit?</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter13_verse8"></a> <b><sup>8 </sup></b>Will <span class="smcap">YOU </span>be treating him with partiality,</p>
<p class="sz">Or for the true God will <span class="smcap">YOU </span>contend at law?</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter13_verse9"></a> <b><sup>9 </sup></b>Would it be good that he sound <span class="smcap">YOU </span>out?</p>
<p class="sz">Or as one trifles with mortal man will <span class="smcap">YOU </span>trifle with him?</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter13_verse10"></a><b><sup>10 </sup></b>He will positively reprove <span class="smcap">YOU</span></p>
<p class="sz">If in secrecy <span class="smcap">YOU </span>try to show partiality;</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter13_verse11"></a><b><sup>11 </sup></b>Will not his very dignity make <span class="smcap">YOU </span>start up with fright,</p>
<p class="sz">And the very dread of him fall upon <span class="smcap">YOU</span>?</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter13_verse12"></a><b><sup>12 </sup></b>Y<span class="smcap">OUR </span>memorable sayings are proverbs of ashes;</p>
<p class="sz">Y<span class="smcap">OUR </span>shield bosses are as shield bosses of clay.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter13_verse13"></a><b><sup>13 </sup></b>K<span class="smcap">EEP </span>silent before me, that I myself may speak.</p>
<p class="sz">Then let come upon me whatever it may be!</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter13_verse14"></a><b><sup>14 </sup></b>Why do I carry my flesh in my teeth</p>
<p class="sz">And place my own soul in my palm?</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter13_verse15"></a><b><sup>15 </sup></b>Even if he would slay me, would I not wait?</p>
<p class="sz">I would only argue to his face for my own ways.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter13_verse16"></a><b><sup>16 </sup></b>He would also be my salvation,</p>
<p class="sz">For before him no apostate will come in.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter13_verse17"></a><b><sup>17 </sup></b>H<span class="smcap">EAR </span>my word clear through,</p>
<p class="sz">And let my declaration be in <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>ears.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter13_verse18"></a><b><sup>18 </sup></b>Look! Please, I have presented a case of justice;</p>
<p class="sz">I well know that I myself am in the right.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter13_verse19"></a><b><sup>19 </sup></b>Who is the one that will contend with me?</p>
<p class="sz">For now were I to become silent I should simply expire!</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter13_verse20"></a><b><sup>20 </sup></b>Only two things do not do to me;</p>
<p class="sz">In that case I shall not conceal myself just on your account;</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter13_verse21"></a><b><sup>21 </sup></b>Put your own hand far away from upon me,</p>
<p class="sz">And the fright of you—may it not terrify me.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter13_verse22"></a><b><sup>22 </sup></b>Either call that I myself may answer;</p>
<p class="sz">Or may I speak, and you return me answer.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter13_verse23"></a><b><sup>23 </sup></b>In what way do I have errors and sins?</p>
<p class="sz">Make me to know my own revolt and my own sin.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter13_verse24"></a><b><sup>24 </sup></b>Why do you conceal your very face</p>
<p class="sz">And regard me as an enemy of yours?</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="page683"></a><a id="chapter13_verse25"></a><b><sup>25 </sup></b>Will you make a mere leaf driven about quiver,</p>
<p class="sz">Or keep chasing after mere dry stubble?</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter13_verse26"></a><b><sup>26 </sup></b>For you keep writing against me bitter things</p>
<p class="sz">And you make me possess the consequences of the errors of my youth.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter13_verse27"></a><b><sup>27 </sup></b>You also keep my feet put in the stocks,</p>
<p class="sz">And you watch all my paths;</p>
<p class="sl">For the soles of my feet you mark your own line.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter13_verse28"></a><b><sup>28 </sup></b>And he is like something rotten that wears out;</p>
<p class="sz">Like a garment that a moth actually eats up.</p>
</body>
</html>
