<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="application/xhtml+xml; charset=utf-8" />
<title>Job 10</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/bi12.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
<p class="w_biblebookname">Job</p><p class="sl"><a id="chapter10"></a><a id="chapter10_verse1"></a><span class="w_ch"><b>10 </b></span>“My soul certainly feels a loathing toward my life.</p>
<p class="sz">I will give vent to my concern about myself.</p>
<p class="sz">I will speak in the bitterness of my soul!</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter10_verse2"></a> <b><sup>2 </sup></b>I shall say to God, ‘Do not pronounce me wicked.</p>
<p class="sz">Cause me to know why it is that you are contending with me.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter10_verse3"></a> <b><sup>3 </sup></b>Is it good for you that you should do wrong,</p>
<p class="sz">That you should reject the product of the hard work of your hands,</p>
<p class="sz">And that upon the counsel of wicked ones you should actually beam?</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter10_verse4"></a> <b><sup>4 </sup></b>Do you have eyes of flesh,</p>
<p class="sz">Or is it as a mortal man sees that you see?</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter10_verse5"></a> <b><sup>5 </sup></b>Are your days like the days of mortal man,</p>
<p class="sz">Or your years just like the days of an able-bodied man,</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter10_verse6"></a> <b><sup>6 </sup></b>That you should try to find my error</p>
<p class="sz">And for my sin you should keep looking?</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter10_verse7"></a> <b><sup>7 </sup></b>This in spite of your own knowledge that I am not in the wrong,</p>
<p class="sz">And there is no one delivering out of your own hand?</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter10_verse8"></a> <b><sup>8 </sup></b>Your own hands have shaped me so that they made me</p>
<p class="sz">In entirety round about, and yet you would swallow me up.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter10_verse9"></a> <b><sup>9 </sup></b>Remember, please, that out of clay you have made me</p>
<p class="sz">And to dust you will make me return.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter10_verse10"></a><b><sup>10 </sup></b>Did you not proceed to pour me out as milk itself</p>
<p class="sz">And like cheese to curdle me?</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter10_verse11"></a><b><sup>11 </sup></b>With skin and flesh you proceeded to clothe me</p>
<p class="sz">And with bones and sinews to weave me together.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter10_verse12"></a><b><sup>12 </sup></b>Life and loving-kindness you have worked with me;</p>
<p class="sz">And your own care has guarded my spirit.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter10_verse13"></a><b><sup>13 </sup></b>And these things you have concealed in your heart.</p>
<p class="sz">I well know that these things are with you.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter10_verse14"></a><b><sup>14 </sup></b>If I have sinned and you have kept watching me</p>
<p class="sz">And of my error you do not hold me innocent;</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter10_verse15"></a><b><sup>15 </sup></b>If I am actually in the wrong, too bad for me!</p>
<p class="sz">And if I am actually in the right, I may not raise my head,</p>
<p class="sz">Glutted with dishonor and saturated with affliction.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter10_verse16"></a><b><sup>16 </sup></b>And if it acts haughtily, like a young lion you will hunt for me,</p>
<p class="sz">And you will again show yourself marvelous in my case.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter10_verse17"></a><b><sup>17 </sup></b>You will bring forth new witnesses of yours in front of me,</p>
<p class="sz">And you will make your vexation with me greater;</p>
<p class="sz">Hardship after hardship is with me.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter10_verse18"></a><b><sup>18 </sup></b>So why from a womb did you bring me out?</p>
<p class="sz">Could I have expired, that not even an eye could see me,</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter10_verse19"></a><b><sup>19 </sup></b>There as though I had not <a id="page680"></a>come to be I should have become;</p>
<p class="sz">From the belly to the burial place I should have been brought.’</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter10_verse20"></a><b><sup>20 </sup></b>Are not my days few? Let him leave off,</p>
<p class="sz">Let him turn his gaze from me, that I may brighten up a little</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter10_verse21"></a><b><sup>21 </sup></b>Before I go away—and I shall not come back—</p>
<p class="sz">To the land of darkness and deep shadow,</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter10_verse22"></a><b><sup>22 </sup></b>To the land of obscurity like gloom, of deep shadow</p>
<p class="sz">And disorder, where it beams no more than gloom does.”</p>
</body>
</html>
