<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="application/xhtml+xml; charset=utf-8" />
<title>Job 11</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/bi12.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
<p class="w_biblebookname">Job</p><p class="sb"><a id="chapter11"></a><a id="chapter11_verse1"></a><span class="w_ch"><b>11 </b></span>And Zo′phar the Na′a·ma·thite proceeded to answer and say:</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter11_verse2"></a> <b><sup>2 </sup></b>“Will a multitude of words go unanswered,</p>
<p class="sz">Or will a mere boaster be in the right?</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter11_verse3"></a> <b><sup>3 </sup></b>Will your empty talk itself put men to silence,</p>
<p class="sz">And will you keep deriding without having anyone rebuke you?</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter11_verse4"></a> <b><sup>4 </sup></b>Also, you say, ‘My instruction is pure,</p>
<p class="sz">And I have proved really clean in your eyes.’</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter11_verse5"></a> <b><sup>5 </sup></b>Yet O if only God himself would speak</p>
<p class="sz">And open his lips with you!</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter11_verse6"></a> <b><sup>6 </sup></b>Then he would tell you the secrets of wisdom,</p>
<p class="sz">For the things of practical wisdom are manifold.</p>
<p class="sz">Also, you would know that God allows some of your error to be forgotten for you.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter11_verse7"></a> <b><sup>7 </sup></b>Can you find out the deep things of God,</p>
<p class="sz">Or can you find out to the very limit of the Almighty?</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter11_verse8"></a> <b><sup>8 </sup></b>It is higher than heaven. What can you accomplish?</p>
<p class="sz">It is deeper than She′ol. What can you know?</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter11_verse9"></a> <b><sup>9 </sup></b>It is longer than the earth in measure,</p>
<p class="sz">And broader than the sea.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter11_verse10"></a><b><sup>10 </sup></b>If he moves on and hands someone over</p>
<p class="sz">And calls a court, then who can resist him?</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter11_verse11"></a><b><sup>11 </sup></b>For he himself well knows men who are untrue.</p>
<p class="sz">When he sees what is hurtful, will he not also show himself attentive?</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter11_verse12"></a><b><sup>12 </sup></b>Even a hollow-minded man himself will get good motive</p>
<p class="sz">As soon as an asinine zebra be born a man.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter11_verse13"></a><b><sup>13 </sup></b>If you yourself will really prepare your heart</p>
<p class="sz">And actually spread out your palms to him,</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter11_verse14"></a><b><sup>14 </sup></b>If what is hurtful is in your hand, put it far away,</p>
<p class="sz">And let no unrighteousness dwell in your tents.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter11_verse15"></a><b><sup>15 </sup></b>For then you will raise your face without defect</p>
<p class="sz">And you will certainly become established, and you will not fear.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter11_verse16"></a><b><sup>16 </sup></b>For you—you will forget trouble itself;</p>
<p class="sz">As waters that have passed along you will remember it.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter11_verse17"></a><b><sup>17 </sup></b>And brighter than midday will your life’s duration arise;</p>
<p class="sz">Darkness will become like the morning itself.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter11_verse18"></a><b><sup>18 </sup></b>And you will be bound to trust because there exists hope;</p>
<p class="sz">And you will certainly look carefully around—in security you will lie down.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter11_verse19"></a><b><sup>19 </sup></b>And you will indeed stretch yourself out, with no one to make you tremble.</p>
<p class="sz">And many people will certainly put you in a gentle mood;</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter11_verse20"></a><b><sup>20 </sup></b>And the very eyes of the wicked will fail;</p>
<p class="sz">And a place for flight will <a id="page681"></a>certainly perish from them,</p>
<p class="sz">And their hope will be an expiring of the soul.”</p>
</body>
</html>
