<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="application/xhtml+xml; charset=utf-8" />
<title>Job 40</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/bi12.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
<p class="w_biblebookname">Job</p><p class="sb"><a id="chapter40"></a><a id="chapter40_verse1"></a><span class="w_ch"><b>40 </b></span>And Jehovah proceeded to answer Job and say:</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter40_verse2"></a> <b><sup>2 </sup></b>“Should there be any contending of a faultfinder with the Almighty?</p>
<p class="sp">Let the reprover of God himself answer it.”</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter40_verse3"></a><b><sup>3 </sup></b>And Job went on to answer Jehovah and say:</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter40_verse4"></a> <b><sup>4 </sup></b>“Look! I have become of little account.</p>
<p class="sz">What shall I reply to you?</p>
<p class="sz">My hand I have put over my mouth.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter40_verse5"></a> <b><sup>5 </sup></b>Once have I spoken, and I will not answer;</p>
<p class="sz">And twice, and I will add nothing.”</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter40_verse6"></a><b><sup>6 </sup></b>And Jehovah went on to answer Job out of the windstorm and say:</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter40_verse7"></a> <b><sup>7 </sup></b>“Gird up your loins, please, like an able-bodied man;</p>
<p class="sz">I shall question you, and you inform me.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter40_verse8"></a> <b><sup>8 </sup></b>Really, will you invalidate my justice?</p>
<p class="sz">Will you pronounce me wicked in order that you may be in the right?</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter40_verse9"></a> <b><sup>9 </sup></b>Or do you have an arm like that of the true God,</p>
<p class="sz">And with a voice like his can you make it thunder?</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter40_verse10"></a><b><sup>10 </sup></b>Deck yourself, please, with superiority and highness;</p>
<p class="sz">And with dignity and splendor may you clothe yourself.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter40_verse11"></a><b><sup>11 </sup></b>Let flow the furious outbursts of your anger,</p>
<p class="sz">And see every one haughty and bring him low.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter40_verse12"></a><b><sup>12 </sup></b>See every one haughty, humble him,</p>
<p class="sz">And tread down the wicked right where they are.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter40_verse13"></a><b><sup>13 </sup></b>Hide them together in the dust,</p>
<p class="sz">Bind their very faces in the hidden place,</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter40_verse14"></a><b><sup>14 </sup></b>And I, even I, shall commend you,</p>
<p class="sz">Because your right hand can save you.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter40_verse15"></a><b><sup>15 </sup></b>Here, now, is Be·he′moth that I have made as well as you.</p>
<p class="sz">Green grass it eats just as a bull does.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter40_verse16"></a><b><sup>16 </sup></b>Here, now, its power is in its hips,</p>
<p class="sz">And its dynamic energy in the tendons of its belly.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter40_verse17"></a><b><sup>17 </sup></b>It bends down its tail like a cedar;</p>
<p class="sz">The sinews of its thighs are interwoven.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter40_verse18"></a><b><sup>18 </sup></b>Its bones are tubes of copper;</p>
<p class="sz">Its strong bones are like wrought-iron rods.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter40_verse19"></a><b><sup>19 </sup></b>It is the beginning of the ways of God;</p>
<p class="sz">Its Maker can bring near his sword.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter40_verse20"></a><b><sup>20 </sup></b>For the mountains themselves bear their produce for it,</p>
<p class="sz">And all the wild beasts of the field themselves play there.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter40_verse21"></a><b><sup>21 </sup></b>Under the thorny lotus trees it lies down,</p>
<p class="sz">In the concealed place of reeds and the swampy place.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter40_verse22"></a><b><sup>22 </sup></b>The thorny lotus trees keep it blocked off with their shadow;</p>
<p class="sz">The poplars of the torrent valley surround it.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter40_verse23"></a><b><sup>23 </sup></b>If the river acts violently, it does not run in panic.</p>
<p class="sz">It is confident, although the Jordan should burst forth against its mouth.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter40_verse24"></a><b><sup>24 </sup></b>Before its eyes can anyone take it?</p>
<p class="sz">With snares can anyone bore its nose?</p>
</body>
</html>
