<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="application/xhtml+xml; charset=utf-8" />
<title>Job 19</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/bi12.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
<p class="w_biblebookname">Job</p><p class="sb"><a id="chapter19"></a><a id="chapter19_verse1"></a><span class="w_ch"><b>19 </b></span>And Job proceeded to answer and say:</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter19_verse2"></a> <b><sup>2 </sup></b>“How long will <span class="smcap">YOU </span>men keep irritating my soul</p>
<p class="sz">And keep crushing me with words?</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter19_verse3"></a> <b><sup>3 </sup></b>These ten times <span class="smcap">YOU </span>proceeded to rebuke me;</p>
<p class="sz">Y<span class="smcap">OU </span>are not ashamed that <span class="smcap">YOU </span>deal so hard with me.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter19_verse4"></a> <b><sup>4 </sup></b>And, granted that I have made a mistake,</p>
<p class="sz">It is with me that my mistake will lodge.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter19_verse5"></a> <b><sup>5 </sup></b>If for a fact against me <span class="smcap">YOU </span>men do put on great airs,</p>
<p class="sz">And <span class="smcap">YOU </span>show my reproach to be proper against me,</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter19_verse6"></a> <b><sup>6 </sup></b>K<span class="smcap">NOW</span>, then, that God himself has misled me,</p>
<p class="sz">And his hunting net he has closed in upon me.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter19_verse7"></a> <b><sup>7 </sup></b>Look! I keep crying out, ‘Violence!’ but I get no answer;</p>
<p class="sz">I keep crying for help, but there is no justice.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter19_verse8"></a> <b><sup>8 </sup></b>My very path he has blocked with a stone wall, and I cannot pass over;</p>
<p class="sz">And upon my roadways he puts darkness itself.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter19_verse9"></a> <b><sup>9 </sup></b>My own glory he has stripped from me,</p>
<p class="sz">And he takes away the crown of my head.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter19_verse10"></a><b><sup>10 </sup></b>He pulls me down on all sides, and I go away;</p>
<p class="sz">And he pulls my hope out just like a tree.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter19_verse11"></a><b><sup>11 </sup></b>His anger also grows hot against me,</p>
<p class="sz">And he keeps reckoning me as an adversary of his.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter19_verse12"></a><b><sup>12 </sup></b>Unitedly his troops come and cast up their way against me,</p>
<p class="sz">And they camp round about my tent.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter19_verse13"></a><b><sup>13 </sup></b>My own brothers he has put far away from me,</p>
<p class="sz">And the very ones knowing me have even turned aside from me.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter19_verse14"></a><b><sup>14 </sup></b>My intimate acquaintances have ceased to be,</p>
<p class="sz">And those known by me have themselves forgotten me,</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter19_verse15"></a><b><sup>15 </sup></b>Those residing as aliens in my house; and my slave girls themselves reckon me as a stranger;</p>
<p class="sz">A real foreigner I have become in their eyes.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter19_verse16"></a><b><sup>16 </sup></b>To my servant I have called, but he does not answer.</p>
<p class="sz">With my own mouth I keep imploring him for compassion.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter19_verse17"></a><b><sup>17 </sup></b>My breath itself has become loathsome to my wife,</p>
<p class="sz">And I have become foul-smelling to the sons of my mother’s belly.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter19_verse18"></a><b><sup>18 </sup></b>Also young boys themselves have rejected me;</p>
<p class="sz">Let me but rise up, and they begin to speak against me.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter19_verse19"></a><b><sup>19 </sup></b>All the men of my intimate group detest me,</p>
<p class="sz">And those whom I loved have turned against me.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter19_verse20"></a><b><sup>20 </sup></b>To my skin and to my flesh my bones actually cleave,</p>
<p class="sz">And I escape with the skin of my teeth.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter19_verse21"></a><b><sup>21 </sup></b>Show me some favor, show me some favor, O <span class="smcap">YOU </span>my companions,</p>
<p class="sz">For God’s own hand has touched me.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="page689"></a><a id="chapter19_verse22"></a><b><sup>22 </sup></b>Why do <span class="smcap">YOU </span>men keep persecuting me as God does,</p>
<p class="sz">And not become satisfied with my very flesh?</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter19_verse23"></a><b><sup>23 </sup></b>O that now my words were written down!</p>
<p class="sz">O that in a book they were even inscribed!</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter19_verse24"></a><b><sup>24 </sup></b>With an iron stylus and with lead,</p>
<p class="sz">Forever in the rock O that they were hewn!</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter19_verse25"></a><b><sup>25 </sup></b>And I myself well know that my redeemer is alive,</p>
<p class="sz">And that, coming after me, he will rise up over the dust.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter19_verse26"></a><b><sup>26 </sup></b>And after my skin, which they have skinned off,—this!</p>
<p class="sz">Yet reduced in my flesh I shall behold God,</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter19_verse27"></a><b><sup>27 </sup></b>Whom even I shall behold for myself,</p>
<p class="sz">And whom my very eyes will certainly see, but not some stranger.</p>
<p class="sz">My kidneys have failed deep within me.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter19_verse28"></a><b><sup>28 </sup></b>For <span class="smcap">YOU </span>men say, ‘Why do we keep persecuting him?’</p>
<p class="sz">When the very root of the matter is found in me.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter19_verse29"></a><b><sup>29 </sup></b>Be frightened for yourselves because of a sword,</p>
<p class="sz">For the sword means a raging against errors,</p>
<p class="sl">In order that <span class="smcap">YOU </span>men may know there is a judge.”</p>
</body>
</html>
