<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="application/xhtml+xml; charset=utf-8" />
<title>Psalm 75</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/bi12.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
<p class="w_biblebookname">Psalms</p><p class="sw">To the director. “Do not bring to ruin.” A melody. Of A′saph. A song.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter75"></a><a id="chapter75_verse1"></a><span class="w_ch"><b>75 </b></span>We give thanks to you, O God; we give thanks to you,</p>
<p class="sz">And your name is near.</p>
<p class="sz">Men have to declare your wondrous works.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter75_verse2"></a> <b><sup>2 </sup></b>“For I proceeded to take a set time;</p>
<p class="sz">I myself began judging with uprightness.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter75_verse3"></a> <b><sup>3 </sup></b>The earth and all its inhabitants being dissolved,</p>
<p class="sz">It was I that adjusted its pillars.” <i>Se′lah.</i></p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter75_verse4"></a> <b><sup>4 </sup></b>I said to the foolish ones: “Do not be foolish,”</p>
<p class="sz">And to the wicked ones: “Do not exalt the horn.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter75_verse5"></a> <b><sup>5 </sup></b>Do not exalt <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>horn on high.</p>
<p class="sz">Do not speak with an arrogant neck.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter75_verse6"></a> <b><sup>6 </sup></b>For neither from the east nor from the west,</p>
<p class="sz">Nor from the south is there an exalting.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter75_verse7"></a> <b><sup>7 </sup></b>For God is the judge.</p>
<p class="sz">This one he abases, and that one he exalts.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter75_verse8"></a> <b><sup>8 </sup></b>For there is a cup in the hand of Jehovah,</p>
<p class="sz">And the wine is foaming, it is full of mixture.</p>
<p class="sp">And he will surely pour out its dregs from it;</p>
<p class="sz">All the wicked ones of the earth will drain them out, drink them.”</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter75_verse9"></a> <b><sup>9 </sup></b>But as for me, I shall tell of it to time indefinite;</p>
<p class="sz">I will make melody to the God of Jacob.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter75_verse10"></a><b><sup>10 </sup></b>“And all the horns of the wicked ones I shall cut down.”</p>
<p class="sz">The horns of the righteous one will be exalted.</p>
</body>
</html>
