<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="application/xhtml+xml; charset=utf-8" />
<title>Psalm 24</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/bi12.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
<p class="w_biblebookname">Psalms</p><p class="sw">Of David. A melody.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter24"></a><a id="chapter24_verse1"></a><span class="w_ch"><b>24 </b></span>To Jehovah belong the earth and that which fills it,</p>
<p class="sz">The productive land and those dwelling in it.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter24_verse2"></a> <b><sup>2 </sup></b>For upon the seas he himself has solidly fixed it,</p>
<p class="sz">And upon the rivers he keeps it firmly established.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter24_verse3"></a> <b><sup>3 </sup></b>Who may ascend into the mountain of Jehovah,</p>
<p class="sz">And who may rise up in his holy place?</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter24_verse4"></a> <b><sup>4 </sup></b>Anyone innocent in his hands and clean in heart,</p>
<p class="sz">Who has not carried My soul to sheer worthlessness,</p>
<p class="sz">Nor taken an oath deceitfully.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter24_verse5"></a> <b><sup>5 </sup></b>He will carry away blessing from Jehovah</p>
<p class="sz">And righteousness from his God of salvation.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter24_verse6"></a> <b><sup>6 </sup></b>This is the generation of those seeking him,</p>
<p class="sz">Of those searching for your face, O God of Jacob. <i>Se′lah.</i></p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter24_verse7"></a> <b><sup>7 </sup></b>“Raise <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>heads, O <span class="smcap">YOU </span>gates,</p>
<p class="sz">And raise yourselves up, O <span class="smcap">YOU </span>long-lasting entrances,</p>
<p class="sz">That the glorious King may come in!”</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter24_verse8"></a> <b><sup>8 </sup></b>“Who, then, is this glorious King?”</p>
<p class="sz">“Jehovah strong and mighty,</p>
<p class="sz">Jehovah mighty in battle.”</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter24_verse9"></a> <b><sup>9 </sup></b>“Raise <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>heads, O <span class="smcap">YOU </span>gates;</p>
<p class="sz">Yes, raise them up, O <span class="smcap">YOU </span>long-lasting entrances,</p>
<p class="sz">That the glorious King may come in!”</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter24_verse10"></a><b><sup>10 </sup></b>“Who, then, is he, this glorious King?”</p>
<p class="sz">“Jehovah of armies—he is the glorious King.” <i>Se′lah.</i></p>
</body>
</html>
