<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="application/xhtml+xml; charset=utf-8" />
<title>Psalm 50</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/bi12.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
<p class="w_biblebookname">Psalms</p><p class="sw">A melody of A′saph.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter50"></a><a id="chapter50_verse1"></a><span class="w_ch"><b>50 </b></span>The Divine One, God, Jehovah, has himself spoken,</p>
<p class="sz">And he proceeds to call the earth,</p>
<p class="sz">From the rising of the sun until its setting.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter50_verse2"></a> <b><sup>2 </sup></b>Out of Zion, the perfection of prettiness, God himself has beamed forth.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter50_verse3"></a> <b><sup>3 </sup></b>Our God will come and cannot possibly keep silent.</p>
<p class="sz">Before him there devours a fire,</p>
<p class="sz">And all around him it has become exceedingly stormy weather.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter50_verse4"></a> <b><sup>4 </sup></b>He calls to the heavens above and to the earth</p>
<p class="sz">So as to execute judgment on his people:</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter50_verse5"></a> <b><sup>5 </sup></b>“Gather to me my loyal ones,</p>
<p class="sz">Those concluding my covenant over sacrifice.”</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter50_verse6"></a> <b><sup>6 </sup></b>And the heavens tell of his righteousness,</p>
<p class="sz">For God himself is Judge. <i>Se′lah.</i></p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter50_verse7"></a> <b><sup>7 </sup></b>“Do listen, O my people, and I will speak,</p>
<p class="sz">O Israel, and I will bear witness against you.</p>
<p class="sz">I am God, your God.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="page754"></a><a id="chapter50_verse8"></a> <b><sup>8 </sup></b>Not concerning your sacrifices do I reprove you,</p>
<p class="sz">Nor concerning your whole burnt offerings that are in front of me constantly.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter50_verse9"></a> <b><sup>9 </sup></b>I will not take out of your house a bull,</p>
<p class="sz">Out of your pens he-goats.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter50_verse10"></a><b><sup>10 </sup></b>For to me belongs every wild animal of the forest,</p>
<p class="sz">The beasts upon a thousand mountains.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter50_verse11"></a><b><sup>11 </sup></b>I well know every winged creature of the mountains,</p>
<p class="sz">And the animal throngs of the open field are with me.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter50_verse12"></a><b><sup>12 </sup></b>If I were hungry, I would not say it to you;</p>
<p class="sz">For to me the productive land and its fullness belong.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter50_verse13"></a><b><sup>13 </sup></b>Shall I eat the flesh of powerful bulls,</p>
<p class="sz">And the blood of he-goats shall I drink?</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter50_verse14"></a><b><sup>14 </sup></b>Offer thanksgiving as your sacrifice to God,</p>
<p class="sz">And pay to the Most High your vows;</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter50_verse15"></a><b><sup>15 </sup></b>And call me in the day of distress.</p>
<p class="sz">I shall rescue you, and you will glorify me.”</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter50_verse16"></a><b><sup>16 </sup></b>But to the wicked one God will have to say:</p>
<p class="sz">“What right do you have to enumerate my regulations,</p>
<p class="sz">And that you may bear my covenant in your mouth?</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter50_verse17"></a><b><sup>17 </sup></b>Why, you—you have hated discipline,</p>
<p class="sz">And you keep throwing my words behind you.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter50_verse18"></a><b><sup>18 </sup></b>Whenever you saw a thief, you were even pleased with him;</p>
<p class="sz">And your sharing was with adulterers.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter50_verse19"></a><b><sup>19 </sup></b>Your mouth you have let loose to what is bad,</p>
<p class="sz">And your tongue you keep attached to deception.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter50_verse20"></a><b><sup>20 </sup></b>You sit and speak against your own brother,</p>
<p class="sz">Against the son of your mother you give away a fault.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter50_verse21"></a><b><sup>21 </sup></b>These things you have done, and I kept silent.</p>
<p class="sz">You imagined that I would positively become like you.</p>
<p class="sz">I am going to reprove you, and I will set things in order before your eyes.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter50_verse22"></a><b><sup>22 </sup></b>Understand this, please, <span class="smcap">YOU </span>forgetters of God,</p>
<p class="sz">That I may not tear <span class="smcap">YOU </span>to pieces without there being any deliverer.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter50_verse23"></a><b><sup>23 </sup></b>The one offering thanksgiving as his sacrifice is the one that glorifies me;</p>
<p class="sz">And as for the one keeping a set way,</p>
<p class="sz">I will cause him to see salvation by God.”</p>
</body>
</html>
