<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="application/xhtml+xml; charset=utf-8" />
<title>Psalm 145</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/bi12.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
<p class="w_biblebookname">Psalms</p><p class="sw">A praise, of David.</p>
<p class="ss"><span class="smcap">א </span>[<i>ʼA′leph</i>]</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter145"></a><a id="chapter145_verse1"></a><span class="w_ch"><b>145 </b></span>I will exalt you, O my God the King,</p>
<p class="sz">And I will bless your name to time indefinite, even forever.</p>
<p class="ss"><span class="smcap">ב </span>[<i>Behth</i>]</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter145_verse2"></a> <b><sup>2 </sup></b>All day long I will bless you,</p>
<p class="sz">And I will praise your name to time indefinite, even forever.</p>
<p class="ss"><span class="smcap">ג </span>[<i>Gi′mel</i>]</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter145_verse3"></a> <b><sup>3 </sup></b>Jehovah is great and very much to be praised,</p>
<p class="sz">And his greatness is unsearchable.</p>
<p class="ss"><span class="smcap">ד </span>[<i>Da′leth</i>]</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter145_verse4"></a> <b><sup>4 </sup></b>Generation after generation will commend your works,</p>
<p class="sz">And about your mighty acts they will tell.</p>
<p class="ss"><span class="smcap">ה </span>[<i>He</i>ʼ]</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter145_verse5"></a> <b><sup>5 </sup></b>The glorious splendor of your dignity</p>
<p class="sz">And the matters of your wonderful works I will make my concern.</p>
<p class="ss"><span class="smcap">ו </span>[<i>Waw</i>]</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter145_verse6"></a> <b><sup>6 </sup></b>And they will talk about the strength of your own fear-inspiring things;</p>
<p class="sz">And as for your greatness, I will declare it.</p>
<p class="ss"><span class="smcap">ז </span>[<i>Za′yin</i>]</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter145_verse7"></a> <b><sup>7 </sup></b>With the mention of the abundance of your goodness they will bubble over,</p>
<p class="sz">And because of your righteousness they will cry out joyfully.</p>
<p class="ss"><span class="smcap">ח </span>[<i>Chehth</i>]</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter145_verse8"></a> <b><sup>8 </sup></b>Jehovah is gracious and merciful,</p>
<p class="sz">Slow to anger and great in loving-kindness.</p>
<p class="ss"><span class="smcap">ט </span>[<i>Tehth</i>]</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter145_verse9"></a> <b><sup>9 </sup></b>Jehovah is good to all,</p>
<p class="sz">And his mercies are over all his works.</p>
<p class="ss"><span class="smcap">י </span>[<i>Yohdh</i>]</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter145_verse10"></a><b><sup>10 </sup></b>All your works will laud you, O Jehovah,</p>
<p class="sz">And your loyal ones will bless you.</p>
<p class="ss"><span class="smcap">כ </span>[<i>Kaph</i>]</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter145_verse11"></a><b><sup>11 </sup></b>About the glory of your kingship they will talk,</p>
<p class="sz">And about your mightiness they will speak,</p>
<p class="ss"><span class="smcap">ל </span>[<i>La′medh</i>]</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter145_verse12"></a><b><sup>12 </sup></b>To make known to the sons of men his mighty acts</p>
<p class="sz">And the glory of the splendor of his kingship.</p>
<p class="ss"><span class="smcap">מ </span>[<i>Mem</i>]</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter145_verse13"></a><b><sup>13 </sup></b>Your kingship is a kingship for all times indefinite,</p>
<p class="sz">And your dominion is throughout all successive generations.</p>
<p class="ss"><a id="page835"></a><span class="smcap">ס </span>[<i>Sa′mekh</i>]</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter145_verse14"></a><b><sup>14 </sup></b>Jehovah is giving support to all who are falling,</p>
<p class="sz">And is raising up all who are bowed down.</p>
<p class="ss"><span class="smcap">ע </span>[<i>ʽA′yin</i>]</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter145_verse15"></a><b><sup>15 </sup></b>To you the eyes of all look hopefully,</p>
<p class="sz">And you are giving them their food in its season.</p>
<p class="ss"><span class="smcap">פ </span>[<i>Peʼ</i>]</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter145_verse16"></a><b><sup>16 </sup></b>You are opening your hand</p>
<p class="sz">And satisfying the desire of every living thing.</p>
<p class="ss"><span class="smcap">צ </span>[<i>Tsa·dheh′</i>]</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter145_verse17"></a><b><sup>17 </sup></b>Jehovah is righteous in all his ways</p>
<p class="sz">And loyal in all his works.</p>
<p class="ss"><span class="smcap">ק </span>[<i>Qohph</i>]</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter145_verse18"></a><b><sup>18 </sup></b>Jehovah is near to all those calling upon him,</p>
<p class="sz">To all those who call upon him in trueness.</p>
<p class="ss"><span class="smcap">ר </span>[<i>Rehsh</i>]</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter145_verse19"></a><b><sup>19 </sup></b>The desire of those fearing him he will perform,</p>
<p class="sz">And their cry for help he will hear, and he will save them.</p>
<p class="ss"><span class="smcap">ש </span>[<i>Shin</i>]</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter145_verse20"></a><b><sup>20 </sup></b>Jehovah is guarding all those loving him,</p>
<p class="sz">But all the wicked ones he will annihilate.</p>
<p class="ss"><span class="smcap">ת </span>[<i>Taw</i>]</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter145_verse21"></a><b><sup>21 </sup></b>The praise of Jehovah my mouth will speak;</p>
<p class="sz">And let all flesh bless his holy name to time indefinite, even forever.</p>
</body>
</html>
