<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="application/xhtml+xml; charset=utf-8" />
<title>Psalm 45</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/bi12.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
<p class="w_biblebookname">Psalms</p><p class="sw">To the director upon The Lilies. Of the sons of Ko′rah. Mas′kil. A song of the beloved women.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter45"></a><a id="chapter45_verse1"></a><span class="w_ch"><b>45 </b></span>My heart has become astir with a goodly matter.</p>
<p class="sz">I am saying: “My works are concerning a king.”</p>
<p class="sz">May my tongue be the stylus of a skilled copyist.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter45_verse2"></a> <b><sup>2 </sup></b>You are indeed more handsome than the sons of men.</p>
<p class="sz">Charm has been poured out upon your lips.</p>
<p class="sz">That is why God has blessed you to time indefinite.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter45_verse3"></a> <b><sup>3 </sup></b>Gird your sword upon your thigh, O mighty one,</p>
<p class="sz">With your dignity and your splendor.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter45_verse4"></a> <b><sup>4 </sup></b>And in your splendor go on to success;</p>
<p class="sz">Ride in the cause of truth and humility and righteousness,</p>
<p class="sz">And your right hand will instruct you in fear-inspiring things.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter45_verse5"></a> <b><sup>5 </sup></b>Your arrows are sharp—under you peoples keep falling—</p>
<p class="sz">In the heart of the enemies of the king.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter45_verse6"></a> <b><sup>6 </sup></b>God is your throne to time indefinite, even forever;</p>
<p class="sz">The scepter of your kingship is a scepter of uprightness.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter45_verse7"></a> <b><sup>7 </sup></b>You have loved righteousness and you hate wickedness.</p>
<p class="sz">That is why God, your God, has anointed you with the oil of exultation more than your partners.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter45_verse8"></a> <b><sup>8 </sup></b>All your garments are myrrh and aloeswood and cassia;</p>
<p class="sz">Out from the grand ivory palace stringed instruments themselves have made you rejoice.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter45_verse9"></a> <b><sup>9 </sup></b>The daughters of kings are among your precious women.</p>
<p class="sz">The queenly consort has taken her stand at your right hand in gold of O′phir.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter45_verse10"></a><b><sup>10 </sup></b>Listen, O daughter, and see, and incline your ear;</p>
<p class="sz">And forget your people and your father’s house.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter45_verse11"></a><b><sup>11 </sup></b>And the king will long for your prettiness,</p>
<p class="sz">For he is your lord,</p>
<p class="sz">So bow down to him.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter45_verse12"></a><b><sup>12 </sup></b>The daughter of Tyre also with a gift—</p>
<p class="sz">The rich ones of the people will soften your own face.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter45_verse13"></a><b><sup>13 </sup></b>The king’s daughter is all glorious within the house;</p>
<p class="sz">Her clothing is with settings of gold.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter45_verse14"></a><b><sup>14 </sup></b>In woven apparel she will be brought to the king.</p>
<p class="sz">The virgins in her train as her companions are being brought in to you.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter45_verse15"></a><b><sup>15 </sup></b>They will be brought with rejoicing and joyfulness;</p>
<p class="sz">They will enter into the palace of the king.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter45_verse16"></a><b><sup>16 </sup></b>In place of your forefathers there will come to be your sons,</p>
<p class="sz">Whom you will appoint as princes in all the earth.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter45_verse17"></a><b><sup>17 </sup></b>I will make mention of your name throughout all generations to come.</p>
<p class="sz">That is why peoples themselves will laud you to <a id="page751"></a>time indefinite, even forever.</p>
</body>
</html>
