<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="application/xhtml+xml; charset=utf-8" />
<title>Psalm 56</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/bi12.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
<p class="w_biblebookname">Psalms</p><p class="sw">To the director on the Silent Dove among those far away. Of David. Mik′tam. When the Phi·lis′tines laid hold of him in Gath.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter56"></a><a id="chapter56_verse1"></a><span class="w_ch"><b>56 </b></span>Show me favor, O God, because mortal man has snapped at me.</p>
<p class="sz">Warring all day long, he keeps oppressing me.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter56_verse2"></a> <b><sup>2 </sup></b>My foes have kept snapping all day long,</p>
<p class="sz">For there are many warring against me high-mindedly.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter56_verse3"></a> <b><sup>3 </sup></b>Whatever day I get afraid, I, for my part, shall trust even in you.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter56_verse4"></a> <b><sup>4 </sup></b>In union with God I shall praise his word.</p>
<p class="sz">In God I have put my trust; I shall not be afraid.</p>
<p class="sz">What can flesh do to me?</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter56_verse5"></a> <b><sup>5 </sup></b>All day long they keep hurting my personal affairs;</p>
<p class="sz">All their thoughts are against me for bad.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter56_verse6"></a> <b><sup>6 </sup></b>They attack, they conceal themselves,</p>
<p class="sz">They, for their part, keep observing my very steps,</p>
<p class="sz">While they have waited for my soul.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter56_verse7"></a> <b><sup>7 </sup></b>On account of their hurtfulness cast them forth.</p>
<p class="sz">In anger bring down even the peoples, O God.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter56_verse8"></a> <b><sup>8 </sup></b>My being a fugitive you yourself have reported.</p>
<p class="sz">Do put my tears in your skin bottle.</p>
<p class="sz">Are they not in your book?</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter56_verse9"></a> <b><sup>9 </sup></b>At that time my enemies will turn back, on the day that I call;</p>
<p class="sz">This I well know, that God is for me.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter56_verse10"></a><b><sup>10 </sup></b>In union with God I shall praise his word;</p>
<p class="sz">In union with Jehovah I shall praise his word.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter56_verse11"></a><b><sup>11 </sup></b>In God I have put my trust. I shall not be afraid.</p>
<p class="sz">What can earthling man do to me?</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter56_verse12"></a><b><sup>12 </sup></b>Upon me, O God, there are vows to you.</p>
<p class="sz">I shall render expressions of thanksgiving to you.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter56_verse13"></a><b><sup>13 </sup></b>For you have delivered my soul from death—</p>
<p class="sz">Have you not delivered my feet from stumbling?—</p>
<p class="sz">That I may walk about before God in the light of those alive.</p>
</body>
</html>
