<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="application/xhtml+xml; charset=utf-8" />
<title>Psalm 51</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/bi12.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
<p class="w_biblebookname">Psalms</p><p class="sw">To the director. A melody of David. When Nathan the prophet came in to him after he had had relations with Bath-she′ba.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter51"></a><a id="chapter51_verse1"></a><span class="w_ch"><b>51 </b></span>Show me favor, O God, according to your loving-kindness.</p>
<p class="sz">According to the abundance of your mercies wipe out my transgressions.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter51_verse2"></a> <b><sup>2 </sup></b>Thoroughly wash me from my error,</p>
<p class="sz">And cleanse me even from my sin.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter51_verse3"></a> <b><sup>3 </sup></b>For my transgressions I myself know,</p>
<p class="sz">And my sin is in front of me constantly.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter51_verse4"></a> <b><sup>4 </sup></b>Against you, you alone, I have sinned,</p>
<p class="sz">And what is bad in your eyes I have done,</p>
<p class="sp">In order that you may prove to be righteous when you speak,</p>
<p class="sz"><a id="page755"></a>That you may be in the clear when you judge.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter51_verse5"></a> <b><sup>5 </sup></b>Look! With error I was brought forth with birth pains,</p>
<p class="sz">And in sin my mother conceived me.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter51_verse6"></a> <b><sup>6 </sup></b>Look! You have taken delight in truthfulness itself in the inward parts;</p>
<p class="sz">And in the secret self may you cause me to know sheer wisdom.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter51_verse7"></a> <b><sup>7 </sup></b>May you purify me from sin with hyssop, that I may be clean;</p>
<p class="sz">May you wash me, that I may become whiter even than snow.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter51_verse8"></a> <b><sup>8 </sup></b>May you cause me to hear exultation and rejoicing,</p>
<p class="sz">That the bones that you have crushed may be joyful.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter51_verse9"></a> <b><sup>9 </sup></b>Conceal your face from my sins,</p>
<p class="sz">And wipe out even all my errors.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter51_verse10"></a><b><sup>10 </sup></b>Create in me even a pure heart, O God,</p>
<p class="sz">And put within me a new spirit, a steadfast one.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter51_verse11"></a><b><sup>11 </sup></b>Do not throw me away from before your face;</p>
<p class="sz">And your holy spirit O do not take away from me.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter51_verse12"></a><b><sup>12 </sup></b>Do restore to me the exultation of salvation by you,</p>
<p class="sz">And may you support me even with a willing spirit.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter51_verse13"></a><b><sup>13 </sup></b>I will teach transgressors your ways,</p>
<p class="sz">That sinners themselves may turn right back to you.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter51_verse14"></a><b><sup>14 </sup></b>Deliver me from bloodguiltiness, O God the God of my salvation,</p>
<p class="sz">That my tongue may joyfully tell about your righteousness.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter51_verse15"></a><b><sup>15 </sup></b>O Jehovah, may you open these lips of mine,</p>
<p class="sz">That my own mouth may tell forth your praise.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter51_verse16"></a><b><sup>16 </sup></b>For you do not take delight in sacrifice—otherwise I would give it;</p>
<p class="sz">In whole burnt offering you do not find pleasure.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter51_verse17"></a><b><sup>17 </sup></b>The sacrifices to God are a broken spirit;</p>
<p class="sz">A heart broken and crushed, O God, you will not despise.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter51_verse18"></a><b><sup>18 </sup></b>In your goodwill do deal well with Zion;</p>
<p class="sz">May you build the walls of Jerusalem.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter51_verse19"></a><b><sup>19 </sup></b>In that case you will be delighted with sacrifices of righteousness,</p>
<p class="sz">With burnt sacrifice and whole offering;</p>
<p class="sz">In that case bulls will be offered up on your very own altar.</p>
</body>
</html>
