<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="application/xhtml+xml; charset=utf-8" />
<title>Psalm 60</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/bi12.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
<p class="w_biblebookname">Psalms</p><p class="sw"><a id="page761"></a>To the director on The Lily of Reminder. Mik′tam. Of David. For teaching. When he engaged in a struggle with A′ram-na·ha·ra′im and A′ram-Zo′bah, and Jo′ab proceeded to return and strike down E′dom in the Valley of Salt, even twelve thousand.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter60"></a><a id="chapter60_verse1"></a><span class="w_ch"><b>60 </b></span>O God, you have cast us off, you have broken through us,</p>
<p class="sz">You have become incensed. You should restore us.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter60_verse2"></a> <b><sup>2 </sup></b>You have caused the earth to rock, you have split it open.</p>
<p class="sz">Heal its breaches, for it has tottered.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter60_verse3"></a> <b><sup>3 </sup></b>You have caused your people to see hardship.</p>
<p class="sz">You have made us drink wine sending us reeling.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter60_verse4"></a> <b><sup>4 </sup></b>You have given to those fearing you a signal</p>
<p class="sz">To flee zigzag on account of the bow. <i>Se′lah.</i></p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter60_verse5"></a> <b><sup>5 </sup></b>In order that your beloved ones may be rescued,</p>
<p class="sz">O do save with your right hand and answer us.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter60_verse6"></a> <b><sup>6 </sup></b>God himself has spoken in his holiness:</p>
<p class="sz">“I will exult, I will give out She′chem as a portion;</p>
<p class="sz">And the low plain of Suc′coth I shall measure off.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter60_verse7"></a> <b><sup>7 </sup></b>Gil′e·ad belongs to me and Ma·nas′seh belongs to me,</p>
<p class="sz">And E′phra·im is the fortress of my head one;</p>
<p class="sz">Judah is my commander’s staff.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter60_verse8"></a> <b><sup>8 </sup></b>Mo′ab is my washing pot.</p>
<p class="sz">Over E′dom I shall throw my sandal.</p>
<p class="sz">Over Phi·lis′ti·a I shall shout in triumph.”</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter60_verse9"></a> <b><sup>9 </sup></b>Who will bring me to the besieged city?</p>
<p class="sz">Who will certainly lead me as far as E′dom?</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter60_verse10"></a><b><sup>10 </sup></b>Is it not you, O God, who have cast us off</p>
<p class="sz">And who do not go forth with our armies as God?</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter60_verse11"></a><b><sup>11 </sup></b>Do give us assistance from distress,</p>
<p class="sz">As salvation by earthling man is worthless.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter60_verse12"></a><b><sup>12 </sup></b>By God we shall gain vital energy,</p>
<p class="sz">And he himself will tread down our adversaries.</p>
</body>
</html>
