<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="application/xhtml+xml; charset=utf-8" />
<title>Psalm 115</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/bi12.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
<p class="w_biblebookname">Psalms</p><p class="sl"><a id="chapter115"></a><a id="chapter115_verse1"></a><span class="w_ch"><b>115 </b></span>To us belongs nothing, O Jehovah, to us belongs nothing,</p>
<p class="sz">But to your name give glory</p>
<p class="sz">According to your loving-kindness, according to your trueness.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter115_verse2"></a> <b><sup>2 </sup></b>Why should the nations say:</p>
<p class="sz">“Where, now, is their God?”</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter115_verse3"></a> <b><sup>3 </sup></b>But our God is in the heavens;</p>
<p class="sz">Everything that he delighted to do he has done.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter115_verse4"></a> <b><sup>4 </sup></b>Their idols are silver and gold,</p>
<p class="sz">The work of the hands of earthling man.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter115_verse5"></a> <b><sup>5 </sup></b>A mouth they have, but they cannot speak;</p>
<p class="sz">Eyes they have, but they cannot see;</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter115_verse6"></a> <b><sup>6 </sup></b>Ears they have, but they cannot hear.</p>
<p class="sz">A nose they have, but they cannot smell.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter115_verse7"></a> <b><sup>7 </sup></b>Hands are theirs, but they cannot feel.</p>
<p class="sz">Feet are theirs, but they cannot walk;</p>
<p class="sz">They utter no sound with their throat.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter115_verse8"></a> <b><sup>8 </sup></b>Those making them will become just like them,</p>
<p class="sz">All those who are trusting in them.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter115_verse9"></a> <b><sup>9 </sup></b>O Israel, trust in Jehovah;</p>
<p class="sz">He is their help and their shield.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter115_verse10"></a><b><sup>10 </sup></b>O house of Aaron, put <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>trust in Jehovah;</p>
<p class="sz">He is their help and their shield.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter115_verse11"></a><b><sup>11 </sup></b>Y<span class="smcap">OU </span>that fear Jehovah, trust in Jehovah;</p>
<p class="sz">He is their help and their shield.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter115_verse12"></a><b><sup>12 </sup></b>Jehovah himself has remembered us; he will bless,</p>
<p class="sz">He will bless the house of Israel,</p>
<p class="sl">He will bless the house of Aaron.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter115_verse13"></a><b><sup>13 </sup></b>He will bless those fearing Jehovah,</p>
<p class="sz">The small ones as well as the great ones.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter115_verse14"></a><b><sup>14 </sup></b>Jehovah will give increase to <span class="smcap">YOU</span>,</p>
<p class="sz">To <span class="smcap">YOU </span>and to <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>sons.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter115_verse15"></a><b><sup>15 </sup></b>Y<span class="smcap">OU </span>are the ones blessed by Jehovah,</p>
<p class="sz"><a id="page812"></a>The Maker of heaven and earth.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter115_verse16"></a><b><sup>16 </sup></b>As regards the heavens, to Jehovah the heavens belong,</p>
<p class="sz">But the earth he has given to the sons of men.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter115_verse17"></a><b><sup>17 </sup></b>The dead themselves do not praise Jah,</p>
<p class="sz">Nor do any going down into silence.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter115_verse18"></a><b><sup>18 </sup></b>But we ourselves will bless Jah</p>
<p class="sz">From now on and to time indefinite.</p>
<p class="sz">Praise Jah, <span class="smcap">YOU </span>people!</p>
</body>
</html>
