<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="application/xhtml+xml; charset=utf-8" />
<title>Psalm 99</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/bi12.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
<p class="w_biblebookname">Psalms</p><p class="sl"><a id="chapter99"></a><a id="chapter99_verse1"></a><span class="w_ch"><b>99 </b></span>Jehovah himself has become king. Let the peoples be agitated.</p>
<p class="sz">He is sitting upon the cherubs. Let the earth quiver.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter99_verse2"></a> <b><sup>2 </sup></b>Jehovah is great in Zion,</p>
<p class="sz">And he is high over all the peoples.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter99_verse3"></a> <b><sup>3 </sup></b>Let them laud your name.</p>
<p class="sz">Great and fear-inspiring, holy it is.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter99_verse4"></a> <b><sup>4 </sup></b>And with the strength of a king judgment he has loved.</p>
<p class="sz">You yourself have firmly established uprightness.</p>
<p class="sz">Judgment and righteousness in Jacob are what you yourself have effected.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter99_verse5"></a> <b><sup>5 </sup></b>Exalt Jehovah our God and bow down yourselves at his footstool;</p>
<p class="sz">He is holy.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter99_verse6"></a> <b><sup>6 </sup></b>Moses and Aaron were among his priests,</p>
<p class="sz">And Samuel was among those calling upon his name.</p>
<p class="sz">They were calling to Jehovah, and he himself kept answering them.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter99_verse7"></a> <b><sup>7 </sup></b>In the pillar of cloud he continued speaking to them.</p>
<p class="sz">They kept his reminders and the regulation that he gave to them.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter99_verse8"></a> <b><sup>8 </sup></b>O Jehovah our God, you yourself answered them.</p>
<p class="sz">A God granting pardon you proved to be to them,</p>
<p class="sz">And executing vengeance against their notorious deeds.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter99_verse9"></a> <b><sup>9 </sup></b>Exalt Jehovah our God</p>
<p class="sz">And bow down yourselves at his holy mountain.</p>
<p class="sz">For Jehovah our God is holy.</p>
</body>
</html>
