<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="application/xhtml+xml; charset=utf-8" />
<title>Psalm 17</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/bi12.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
<p class="w_biblebookname">Psalms</p><p class="sw">A prayer of David.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter17"></a><a id="chapter17_verse1"></a><span class="w_ch"><b>17 </b></span>Do hear what is righteous, O Jehovah; do pay attention to my entreating cry;</p>
<p class="sz">Do give ear to my prayer without lips of deception.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter17_verse2"></a> <b><sup>2 </sup></b>From before you may my judgment go forth;</p>
<p class="sz">May your own eyes behold uprightness.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter17_verse3"></a> <b><sup>3 </sup></b>You have examined my heart, you have made inspection by night,</p>
<p class="sz">You have refined me; you will discover that I have not schemed.</p>
<p class="sz">My mouth will not transgress.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter17_verse4"></a> <b><sup>4 </sup></b>As for the activities of men,</p>
<p class="sz">By the word of your lips I myself have watched against the paths of the robber.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter17_verse5"></a> <b><sup>5 </sup></b>Let my steps take hold on your tracks,</p>
<p class="sz">In which my footsteps will certainly not be made to totter.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter17_verse6"></a> <b><sup>6 </sup></b>I myself do call upon you, because you will answer me, O God.</p>
<p class="sz">Incline your ear to me. Hear my saying.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter17_verse7"></a> <b><sup>7 </sup></b>Make your acts of loving-kindnesses wonderful, O Savior of those seeking refuge</p>
<p class="sz">From the revolters against your right hand.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter17_verse8"></a> <b><sup>8 </sup></b>Keep me as the pupil of the eyeball,</p>
<p class="sz">In the shadow of your wings may you conceal me,</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter17_verse9"></a> <b><sup>9 </sup></b>Because of the wicked who have despoiled me.</p>
<p class="sz">The enemies against my soul themselves keep closing in upon me.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter17_verse10"></a><b><sup>10 </sup></b>They have enclosed themselves with their own fat;</p>
<p class="sz">With their mouth they have spoken in haughtiness;</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter17_verse11"></a><b><sup>11 </sup></b>As regards our steps, now they have surrounded us;</p>
<p class="sz">They fix their eyes to incline to the earth.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter17_verse12"></a><b><sup>12 </sup></b>His likeness is that of a lion that yearns to tear to pieces</p>
<p class="sz">And that of a young lion sitting in concealed places.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter17_verse13"></a><b><sup>13 </sup></b>Do rise up, O Jehovah; do confront him to the face;</p>
<p class="sz">Make him bow down; do provide escape for my soul from the wicked one with your sword,</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter17_verse14"></a><b><sup>14 </sup></b>From men, by your hand, O Jehovah,</p>
<p class="sz">From men of this system of things, whose share is in this life,</p>
<p class="sz">And whose belly you fill with your concealed treasure,</p>
<p class="sp">Who are satisfied with sons</p>
<p class="sz">And who do lay up for their children what they leave over.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter17_verse15"></a><b><sup>15 </sup></b>As for me, in righteousness I shall behold your face;</p>
<p class="sz"><a id="page725"></a>I will be satisfied when awakening to see your form.</p>
</body>
</html>
