<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="application/xhtml+xml; charset=utf-8" />
<title>Psalm 98</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/bi12.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
<p class="w_biblebookname">Psalms</p><p class="sw">A melody.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter98"></a><a id="chapter98_verse1"></a><span class="w_ch"><b>98 </b></span>S<span class="smcap">ING </span>to Jehovah a new song,</p>
<p class="sz">For wonderful are the things that he has done.</p>
<p class="sz">His right hand, even his holy arm, has gained salvation for him.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter98_verse2"></a> <b><sup>2 </sup></b>Jehovah has made his salvation known;</p>
<p class="sz">In the eyes of the nations he has revealed his righteousness.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter98_verse3"></a> <b><sup>3 </sup></b>He has remembered his loving-kindness and his faithfulness to the house of Israel.</p>
<p class="sz">All the ends of the earth have seen the salvation by our God.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="page795"></a><a id="chapter98_verse4"></a> <b><sup>4 </sup></b>Shout in triumph to Jehovah, all <span class="smcap">YOU </span>people of the earth.</p>
<p class="sz">Be cheerful and cry out joyfully and make melody.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter98_verse5"></a> <b><sup>5 </sup></b>Make melody to Jehovah with the harp,</p>
<p class="sz">With the harp and the voice of melody.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter98_verse6"></a> <b><sup>6 </sup></b>With the trumpets and the sound of the horn</p>
<p class="sz">Shout in triumph before the King, Jehovah.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter98_verse7"></a> <b><sup>7 </sup></b>Let the sea thunder and that which fills it,</p>
<p class="sz">The productive land and those dwelling in it.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter98_verse8"></a> <b><sup>8 </sup></b>Let the rivers themselves clap their hands;</p>
<p class="sz">All together let the very mountains cry out joyfully</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter98_verse9"></a> <b><sup>9 </sup></b>Before Jehovah, for he has come to judge the earth.</p>
<p class="sz">He will judge the productive land with righteousness</p>
<p class="sz">And the peoples with uprightness.</p>
</body>
</html>
