<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="application/xhtml+xml; charset=utf-8" />
<title>Psalm 32</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/bi12.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
<p class="w_biblebookname">Psalms</p><p class="sw">Of David. Mas′kil.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter32"></a><a id="chapter32_verse1"></a><span class="w_ch"><b>32 </b></span>Happy is the one whose revolt is pardoned, whose sin is covered.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter32_verse2"></a> <b><sup>2 </sup></b>Happy is the man to whose account Jehovah does not put error,</p>
<p class="sz">And in whose spirit there is no deceit.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter32_verse3"></a> <b><sup>3 </sup></b>When I kept silent my bones wore out through my groaning all day long.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter32_verse4"></a> <b><sup>4 </sup></b>For day and night your hand was heavy upon me.</p>
<p class="sz">My life’s moisture has been changed as in the dry heat of summer. <i>Se′lah.</i></p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter32_verse5"></a> <b><sup>5 </sup></b>My sin I finally confessed to you, and my error I did not cover.</p>
<p class="sz">I said: “I shall make confession over my transgressions to Jehovah.”</p>
<p class="sz">And you yourself pardoned the error of my sins. <i>Se′lah.</i></p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter32_verse6"></a> <b><sup>6 </sup></b>On this account every loyal one will pray to you</p>
<p class="sz">At such a time only as you may be found.</p>
<p class="sz">As for the flood of many waters, they will not touch him himself.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter32_verse7"></a> <b><sup>7 </sup></b>You are a place of concealment for me; you will safeguard me from distress itself.</p>
<p class="sz">With joyful cries at providing escape you will surround me. <i>Se′lah.</i></p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter32_verse8"></a> <b><sup>8 </sup></b>“I shall make you have insight and instruct you in the way you should go.</p>
<p class="sz">I will give advice with my eye upon you.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter32_verse9"></a> <b><sup>9 </sup></b>Do not make yourselves like a horse or mule without understanding,</p>
<p class="sz">Whose spiritedness is to be curbed even by bridle or halter</p>
<p class="sz">Before they will come near to you.”</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter32_verse10"></a><b><sup>10 </sup></b>Many are the pains that the wicked one has;</p>
<p class="sz">But as for the one trusting in Jehovah, loving-kindness itself surrounds him.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter32_verse11"></a><b><sup>11 </sup></b>Rejoice in Jehovah and be joyful, <span class="smcap">YOU </span>righteous ones;</p>
<p class="sz">And cry out joyfully, all <span class="smcap">YOU </span>who are upright in heart.</p>
</body>
</html>
