<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="application/xhtml+xml; charset=utf-8" />
<title>Psalm 146</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/bi12.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
<p class="w_biblebookname">Psalms</p><p class="sl"><a id="chapter146"></a><a id="chapter146_verse1"></a><span class="w_ch"><b>146 </b></span>Praise Jah, <span class="smcap">YOU </span>people!</p>
<p class="sz">Praise Jehovah, O my soul.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter146_verse2"></a> <b><sup>2 </sup></b>I will praise Jehovah during my lifetime.</p>
<p class="sz">I will make melody to my God as long as I am.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter146_verse3"></a> <b><sup>3 </sup></b>Do not put <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>trust in nobles,</p>
<p class="sz">Nor in the son of earthling man, to whom no salvation belongs.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter146_verse4"></a> <b><sup>4 </sup></b>His spirit goes out, he goes back to his ground;</p>
<p class="sz">In that day his thoughts do perish.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter146_verse5"></a> <b><sup>5 </sup></b>Happy is the one who has the God of Jacob for his help,</p>
<p class="sz">Whose hope is in Jehovah his God,</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter146_verse6"></a> <b><sup>6 </sup></b>The Maker of heaven and earth,</p>
<p class="sz">Of the sea, and of all that is in them,</p>
<p class="sz">The One keeping trueness to time indefinite,</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter146_verse7"></a> <b><sup>7 </sup></b>The One executing judgment for the defrauded ones,</p>
<p class="sz">The One giving bread to the hungry ones.</p>
<p class="sz">Jehovah is releasing those who are bound.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter146_verse8"></a> <b><sup>8 </sup></b>Jehovah is opening the eyes of the blind ones;</p>
<p class="sz">Jehovah is raising up the ones bowed down;</p>
<p class="sz">Jehovah is loving the righteous ones.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter146_verse9"></a> <b><sup>9 </sup></b>Jehovah is guarding the alien residents;</p>
<p class="sz">The fatherless boy and the widow he relieves,</p>
<p class="sz">But the way of the wicked ones he makes crooked.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter146_verse10"></a><b><sup>10 </sup></b>Jehovah will be king to time indefinite,</p>
<p class="sz">Your God, O Zion, for generation after generation.</p>
<p class="sz">Praise Jah, <span class="smcap">YOU </span>people!</p>
</body>
</html>
