<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="application/xhtml+xml; charset=utf-8" />
<title>Psalm 80</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/bi12.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
<p class="w_biblebookname">Psalms</p><p class="sw">To the director upon The Lilies. A reminder. Of A′saph. A melody.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter80"></a><a id="chapter80_verse1"></a><span class="w_ch"><b>80 </b></span>O Shepherd of Israel, do give ear,</p>
<p class="sz">You who are conducting Joseph just like a flock.</p>
<p class="sz">O you who are sitting upon the cherubs, do beam forth.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter80_verse2"></a> <b><sup>2 </sup></b>Before E′phra·im and Benjamin and Ma·nas′seh do rouse up your mightiness,</p>
<p class="sz">And do come to our salvation.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter80_verse3"></a> <b><sup>3 </sup></b>O God, bring us back;</p>
<p class="sz">And light up your face, that we may be saved.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter80_verse4"></a> <b><sup>4 </sup></b>O Jehovah God of armies, how long must you fume against the prayer of your people?</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter80_verse5"></a> <b><sup>5 </sup></b>You have made them eat the bread of tears,</p>
<p class="sz">And you keep making them drink tears upon tears in great measure.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter80_verse6"></a> <b><sup>6 </sup></b>You set us for strife to our neighbors,</p>
<p class="sz"><a id="page781"></a>And our very enemies keep deriding as they please.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter80_verse7"></a> <b><sup>7 </sup></b>O God of armies, bring us back;</p>
<p class="sz">And light up your face, that we may be saved.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter80_verse8"></a> <b><sup>8 </sup></b>You proceeded to make a vine depart from Egypt.</p>
<p class="sz">You kept driving out the nations, that you might plant it.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter80_verse9"></a> <b><sup>9 </sup></b>You made a clearing before it, that it might take root and fill the land.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter80_verse10"></a><b><sup>10 </sup></b>The mountains were covered with its shadow,</p>
<p class="sz">And the cedars of God with its boughs.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter80_verse11"></a><b><sup>11 </sup></b>It gradually sent forth its boughs as far as the sea,</p>
<p class="sz">And to the River its twigs.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter80_verse12"></a><b><sup>12 </sup></b>Why have you broken down its stone walls,</p>
<p class="sz">And why have all those passing by on the road plucked at it?</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter80_verse13"></a><b><sup>13 </sup></b>A boar out of the woods keeps eating it away,</p>
<p class="sz">And the animal throngs of the open field keep feeding upon it.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter80_verse14"></a><b><sup>14 </sup></b>O God of armies, return, please;</p>
<p class="sz">Look down from heaven and see and take care of this vine,</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter80_verse15"></a><b><sup>15 </sup></b>And the stock that your right hand has planted,</p>
<p class="sz">And look upon the son whom you have made strong for yourself.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter80_verse16"></a><b><sup>16 </sup></b>It is burned with fire, cut off.</p>
<p class="sz">From the rebuke of your face they perish.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter80_verse17"></a><b><sup>17 </sup></b>Let your hand prove to be upon the man of your right hand,</p>
<p class="sz">Upon the son of mankind whom you have made strong for yourself,</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter80_verse18"></a><b><sup>18 </sup></b>And we shall not turn back from you.</p>
<p class="sz">May you preserve us alive, that we may call upon your own name.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter80_verse19"></a><b><sup>19 </sup></b>O Jehovah God of armies, bring us back;</p>
<p class="sz">Light up your face, that we may be saved.</p>
</body>
</html>
