<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="application/xhtml+xml; charset=utf-8" />
<title>Psalm 42</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/bi12.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
<p class="w_biblebookname">Psalms</p><p class="ss">BOOK TWO</p>
<p class="ss">(Psalms 42 – 72)</p>
<p class="sw">To the director. Mas′kil for the sons of Ko′rah.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter42"></a><a id="chapter42_verse1"></a><span class="w_ch"><b>42 </b></span>As the hind that longs for the water streams,</p>
<p class="sz">So my very soul longs for you, O God.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter42_verse2"></a> <b><sup>2 </sup></b>My soul indeed thirsts for God, for the living God.</p>
<p class="sz">When shall I come and appear before God?</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter42_verse3"></a> <b><sup>3 </sup></b>To me my tears have become food day and night,</p>
<p class="sz">While they say to me all day long: “Where is your God?”</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter42_verse4"></a> <b><sup>4 </sup></b>These things I will remember, and I will pour out my soul within me.</p>
<p class="sz"><a id="page748"></a>For I used to pass along with the throng,</p>
<p class="sz">I used to walk slowly before them to the house of God,</p>
<p class="sp">With the voice of a joyful cry and thanksgiving,</p>
<p class="sz">Of a crowd celebrating a festival.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter42_verse5"></a> <b><sup>5 </sup></b>Why are you in despair, O my soul,</p>
<p class="sz">And why are you boisterous within me?</p>
<p class="sp">Wait for God,</p>
<p class="sz">For I shall yet laud him as the grand salvation of my person.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter42_verse6"></a> <b><sup>6 </sup></b>O my God, within me my very soul is in despair.</p>
<p class="sz">That is why I remember you,</p>
<p class="sp">From the land of Jordan and the peaks of Her′mon,</p>
<p class="sz">From the little mountain.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter42_verse7"></a> <b><sup>7 </sup></b>Watery deep to watery deep is calling</p>
<p class="sz">At the sound of your waterspouts.</p>
<p class="sp">All your breakers and your waves—</p>
<p class="sz">Over me they have passed.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter42_verse8"></a> <b><sup>8 </sup></b>By day Jehovah will command his loving-kindness,</p>
<p class="sz">And by night his song will be with me;</p>
<p class="sz">There will be prayer to the God of my life.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter42_verse9"></a> <b><sup>9 </sup></b>I will say to God my crag:</p>
<p class="sz">“Why have you forgotten me?</p>
<p class="sz">Why do I walk sad because of the oppression of the enemy?”</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter42_verse10"></a><b><sup>10 </sup></b>With murder against my bones those showing hostility to me have reproached me,</p>
<p class="sz">While they say to me all day long: “Where is your God?”</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter42_verse11"></a><b><sup>11 </sup></b>Why are you in despair, O my soul,</p>
<p class="sz">And why are you boisterous within me?</p>
<p class="sp">Wait for God,</p>
<p class="sz">For I shall yet laud him as the grand salvation of my person and as my God.</p>
</body>
</html>
