<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="application/xhtml+xml; charset=utf-8" />
<title>Psalm 9</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/bi12.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
<p class="w_biblebookname">Psalms</p><p class="sw">To the director upon Muth-lab′ben. A melody of David.</p>
<p class="ss"><span class="smcap">א </span>[<i>ʼA′leph</i>]</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter9"></a><a id="chapter9_verse1"></a><span class="w_ch"><b>9 </b></span>I will laud you, O Jehovah, with all my heart;</p>
<p class="sz">I will declare all your wonderful works.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter9_verse2"></a> <b><sup>2 </sup></b>I will rejoice and exult in you,</p>
<p class="sz">I will make melody to your name, O Most High.</p>
<p class="ss"><span class="smcap">ב </span>[<i>Behth</i>]</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter9_verse3"></a> <b><sup>3 </sup></b>When my enemies turn back,</p>
<p class="sz">They will stumble and perish from before you.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter9_verse4"></a> <b><sup>4 </sup></b>For you have executed my judgment and my cause;</p>
<p class="sz">You have sat on the throne judging with righteousness.</p>
<p class="ss"><span class="smcap">ג </span>[<i>Gi′mel</i>]</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter9_verse5"></a> <b><sup>5 </sup></b>You have rebuked nations, you have destroyed the wicked one.</p>
<p class="sz">Their name you have wiped out to time indefinite, even forever.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter9_verse6"></a> <b><sup>6 </sup></b>O you enemy, your desolations have come to their perpetual finish,</p>
<p class="sz">And the cities that you have uprooted.</p>
<p class="sz">The very mention of them will certainly perish.</p>
<p class="ss"><span class="smcap">ה </span>[<i>He</i>ʼ]</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter9_verse7"></a> <b><sup>7 </sup></b>As for Jehovah, he will sit to time indefinite,</p>
<p class="sz">Firmly establishing his throne for judgment itself.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter9_verse8"></a> <b><sup>8 </sup></b>And he himself will judge the productive land in righteousness;</p>
<p class="sz">He will judicially try national groups in uprightness.</p>
<p class="ss"><span class="smcap">ו </span>[<i>Waw</i>]</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter9_verse9"></a> <b><sup>9 </sup></b>And Jehovah will become a <a id="page720"></a>secure height for anyone crushed,</p>
<p class="sz">A secure height in times of distress.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter9_verse10"></a><b><sup>10 </sup></b>And those knowing your name will trust in you,</p>
<p class="sz">For you will certainly not leave those looking for you, O Jehovah.</p>
<p class="ss"><span class="smcap">ז </span>[<i>Za′yin</i>]</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter9_verse11"></a><b><sup>11 </sup></b>Make melody, <span class="smcap">YOU </span>people, to Jehovah, who is dwelling in Zion;</p>
<p class="sz">Tell among the peoples his deeds.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter9_verse12"></a><b><sup>12 </sup></b>For, when looking for bloodshed, he will certainly remember those very ones;</p>
<p class="sz">He is sure not to forget the outcry of the afflicted ones.</p>
<p class="ss"><span class="smcap">ח </span>[<i>Chehth</i>]</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter9_verse13"></a><b><sup>13 </sup></b>Show me favor, O Jehovah; see my affliction by those hating me,</p>
<p class="sz">O you who are lifting me up from the gates of death,</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter9_verse14"></a><b><sup>14 </sup></b>In order that I may declare all your praiseworthy deeds</p>
<p class="sz">In the gates of the daughter of Zion,</p>
<p class="sl">That I may be joyful in your salvation.</p>
<p class="ss"><span class="smcap">ט </span>[<i>Tehth</i>]</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter9_verse15"></a><b><sup>15 </sup></b>The nations have sunk down into the pit that they have made;</p>
<p class="sz">In the net that they hid, their own foot has been caught.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter9_verse16"></a><b><sup>16 </sup></b>Jehovah is known by the judgment that he has executed.</p>
<p class="sz">By the activity of his own hands the wicked one has been ensnared.</p>
<p class="sz">Hig·ga′ion. <i>Se′lah.</i></p>
<p class="ss"><span class="smcap">י </span>[<i>Yohdh</i>]</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter9_verse17"></a><b><sup>17 </sup></b>Wicked people will turn back to She′ol,</p>
<p class="sz">Even all the nations forgetting God.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter9_verse18"></a><b><sup>18 </sup></b>For not always will the poor one be forgotten,</p>
<p class="sz">Nor will the hope of the meek ones ever perish.</p>
<p class="ss"><span class="smcap">כ </span>[<i>Kaph</i>]</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter9_verse19"></a><b><sup>19 </sup></b>Do arise, O Jehovah! Let not mortal man prove superior in strength.</p>
<p class="sz">Let the nations be judged before your face.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter9_verse20"></a><b><sup>20 </sup></b>Do put fear into them, O Jehovah,</p>
<p class="sz">That the nations may know that they are but mortal men. <i>Se′lah.</i></p>
</body>
</html>
