<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="application/xhtml+xml; charset=utf-8" />
<title>Psalm 33</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/bi12.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
<p class="w_biblebookname">Psalms</p><p class="sl"><a id="chapter33"></a><a id="chapter33_verse1"></a><span class="w_ch"><b>33 </b></span>Cry out joyfully, O <span class="smcap">YOU </span>righteous ones, because of Jehovah.</p>
<p class="sz">On the part of the upright ones praise is fitting.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter33_verse2"></a> <b><sup>2 </sup></b>Give thanks to Jehovah on the harp;</p>
<p class="sz">On an instrument of ten strings make melody to him.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter33_verse3"></a> <b><sup>3 </sup></b>Sing to him a new song;</p>
<p class="sz">Do <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>best at playing on the strings along with joyful shouting.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="page738"></a><a id="chapter33_verse4"></a> <b><sup>4 </sup></b>For the word of Jehovah is upright,</p>
<p class="sz">And all his work is in faithfulness.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter33_verse5"></a> <b><sup>5 </sup></b>He is a lover of righteousness and justice.</p>
<p class="sz">With the loving-kindness of Jehovah the earth is filled.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter33_verse6"></a> <b><sup>6 </sup></b>By the word of Jehovah the heavens themselves were made,</p>
<p class="sz">And by the spirit of his mouth all their army.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter33_verse7"></a> <b><sup>7 </sup></b>He is gathering as by a dam the waters of the sea,</p>
<p class="sz">Putting in storehouses the surging waters.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter33_verse8"></a> <b><sup>8 </sup></b>Let all those of the earth be in fear of Jehovah.</p>
<p class="sz">At him let all the inhabitants of the productive land be frightened.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter33_verse9"></a> <b><sup>9 </sup></b>For he himself said, and it came to be;</p>
<p class="sz">He himself commanded, and it proceeded to stand so.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter33_verse10"></a><b><sup>10 </sup></b>Jehovah himself has broken up the counsel of the nations;</p>
<p class="sz">He has thwarted the thoughts of the peoples.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter33_verse11"></a><b><sup>11 </sup></b>To time indefinite the very counsel of Jehovah will stand;</p>
<p class="sz">The thoughts of his heart are to one generation after another generation.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter33_verse12"></a><b><sup>12 </sup></b>Happy is the nation whose God is Jehovah,</p>
<p class="sz">The people whom he has chosen as his inheritance.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter33_verse13"></a><b><sup>13 </sup></b>From the heavens Jehovah has looked,</p>
<p class="sz">He has seen all the sons of men.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter33_verse14"></a><b><sup>14 </sup></b>From the established place where he dwells</p>
<p class="sz">He has gazed at all those dwelling on the earth.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter33_verse15"></a><b><sup>15 </sup></b>He is forming their hearts all together;</p>
<p class="sz">He is considering all their works.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter33_verse16"></a><b><sup>16 </sup></b>There is no king saved by the abundance of military forces;</p>
<p class="sz">A mighty man himself is not delivered by the abundance of power.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter33_verse17"></a><b><sup>17 </sup></b>The horse is a deception for salvation,</p>
<p class="sz">And by the abundance of its vital energy it does not afford escape.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter33_verse18"></a><b><sup>18 </sup></b>Look! The eye of Jehovah is toward those fearing him,</p>
<p class="sz">To those waiting for his loving-kindness,</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter33_verse19"></a><b><sup>19 </sup></b>To deliver their soul from death itself,</p>
<p class="sz">And to preserve them alive in famine.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter33_verse20"></a><b><sup>20 </sup></b>Our very soul has been in expectation of Jehovah.</p>
<p class="sz">Our helper and our shield he is.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter33_verse21"></a><b><sup>21 </sup></b>For in him our heart rejoices;</p>
<p class="sz">For in his holy name we have put our trust.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter33_verse22"></a><b><sup>22 </sup></b>Let your loving-kindness, O Jehovah, prove to be upon us,</p>
<p class="sz">Even as we have kept waiting for you.</p>
</body>
</html>
