<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="application/xhtml+xml; charset=utf-8" />
<title>Psalm 71</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/bi12.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
<p class="w_biblebookname">Psalms</p><p class="sl"><a id="chapter71"></a><a id="chapter71_verse1"></a><span class="w_ch"><b>71 </b></span>In you, O Jehovah, I have taken refuge.</p>
<p class="sz">O may I never be ashamed.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter71_verse2"></a> <b><sup>2 </sup></b>In your righteousness may you deliver me and provide me with escape.</p>
<p class="sz">Incline to me your ear and save me.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter71_verse3"></a> <b><sup>3 </sup></b>Become to me a rock fortress into which to enter constantly.</p>
<p class="sz">You must command to save me,</p>
<p class="sl">For you are my crag and my stronghold.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter71_verse4"></a> <b><sup>4 </sup></b>O my God, provide me with escape from the hand of the wicked one,</p>
<p class="sz"><a id="page770"></a>From the palm of the one acting unjustly and oppressively.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter71_verse5"></a> <b><sup>5 </sup></b>For you are my hope, O Sovereign Lord Jehovah, my confidence from my youth.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter71_verse6"></a> <b><sup>6 </sup></b>Upon you I have supported myself from the belly;</p>
<p class="sz">You are the One severing me even from the inward parts of my mother.</p>
<p class="sz">In you my praise is constantly.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter71_verse7"></a> <b><sup>7 </sup></b>I have become just like a miracle to many people;</p>
<p class="sz">But you are my strong refuge.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter71_verse8"></a> <b><sup>8 </sup></b>My mouth is filled with your praise,</p>
<p class="sz">All day long with your beauty.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter71_verse9"></a> <b><sup>9 </sup></b>Do not throw me away in the time of old age;</p>
<p class="sz">Just when my power is failing, do not leave me.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter71_verse10"></a><b><sup>10 </sup></b>For my enemies have said in regard to me,</p>
<p class="sz">And the very ones keeping watch for my soul have jointly exchanged counsel,</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter71_verse11"></a><b><sup>11 </sup></b>Saying: “God himself has left him.</p>
<p class="sz">Pursue and catch him, for there is no deliverer.”</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter71_verse12"></a><b><sup>12 </sup></b>O God, do not keep far away from me.</p>
<p class="sz">O my God, do hurry to my assistance.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter71_verse13"></a><b><sup>13 </sup></b>May those be ashamed, may those come to their end, who are resisting my soul.</p>
<p class="sz">May those cover themselves with reproach and humiliation who are seeking calamity for me.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter71_verse14"></a><b><sup>14 </sup></b>But as for me, I shall wait constantly,</p>
<p class="sz">And I will add to all your praise.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter71_verse15"></a><b><sup>15 </sup></b>My own mouth will recount your righteousness,</p>
<p class="sz">All day long your salvation,</p>
<p class="sz">For I have not come to know the numbers of them.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter71_verse16"></a><b><sup>16 </sup></b>I shall come in grand mightiness, O Sovereign Lord Jehovah;</p>
<p class="sz">I shall mention your righteousness, yours alone.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter71_verse17"></a><b><sup>17 </sup></b>O God, you have taught me from my youth on,</p>
<p class="sz">And until now I keep telling about your wonderful works.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter71_verse18"></a><b><sup>18 </sup></b>And even until old age and gray-headedness, O God, do not leave me,</p>
<p class="sz">Until I may tell about your arm to the generation,</p>
<p class="sz">To all those who are to come, about your mightiness.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter71_verse19"></a><b><sup>19 </sup></b>Your righteousness, O God, is up to the height;</p>
<p class="sz">As respects the great things that you have done,</p>
<p class="sz">O God, who is like you?</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter71_verse20"></a><b><sup>20 </sup></b>Because you have made me see many distresses and calamities,</p>
<p class="sz">May you revive me again;</p>
<p class="sz">And from the watery deeps of the earth may you again bring me up.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter71_verse21"></a><b><sup>21 </sup></b>May you enlarge my greatness,</p>
<p class="sz">And may you surround and comfort me.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter71_verse22"></a><b><sup>22 </sup></b>I too, I shall laud you on an instrument of a stringed sort,</p>
<p class="sz">As regards your trueness, O my God.</p>
<p class="sz">I will make melody to you on the harp, O Holy One of Israel.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter71_verse23"></a><b><sup>23 </sup></b>My lips will cry out joyfully when I am inclined to make melody to you,</p>
<p class="sz"><a id="page771"></a>Even my soul that you have redeemed.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter71_verse24"></a><b><sup>24 </sup></b>Also, my own tongue, all day long, will utter in an undertone your righteousness,</p>
<p class="sz">For they have become ashamed, for they have become abashed, who are seeking calamity for me.</p>
</body>
</html>
