<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="application/xhtml+xml; charset=utf-8" />
<title>Psalm 96</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/bi12.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
<p class="w_biblebookname">Psalms</p><p class="sl"><a id="chapter96"></a><a id="chapter96_verse1"></a><span class="w_ch"><b>96 </b></span>Sing to Jehovah a new song.</p>
<p class="sz">Sing to Jehovah, all <span class="smcap">YOU </span>people of the earth.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter96_verse2"></a> <b><sup>2 </sup></b>Sing to Jehovah, bless his name.</p>
<p class="sz">From day to day tell the good news of salvation by him.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter96_verse3"></a> <b><sup>3 </sup></b>Declare among the nations his glory,</p>
<p class="sz">Among all the peoples his wonderful works.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter96_verse4"></a> <b><sup>4 </sup></b>For Jehovah is great and very much to be praised.</p>
<p class="sz">He is fear-inspiring above all other gods.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter96_verse5"></a> <b><sup>5 </sup></b>For all the gods of the peoples are valueless gods;</p>
<p class="sz">But as for Jehovah, he has made the very heavens.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter96_verse6"></a> <b><sup>6 </sup></b>Dignity and splendor are before him;</p>
<p class="sz">Strength and beauty are in his sanctuary.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter96_verse7"></a> <b><sup>7 </sup></b>Ascribe to Jehovah, O <span class="smcap">YOU </span>families of the peoples,</p>
<p class="sz">Ascribe to Jehovah glory and strength.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter96_verse8"></a> <b><sup>8 </sup></b>Ascribe to Jehovah the glory belonging to his name;</p>
<p class="sz">Carry a gift and come into his courtyards.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter96_verse9"></a> <b><sup>9 </sup></b>Bow down to Jehovah in holy adornment;</p>
<p class="sz">Be in severe pains because of him, all <span class="smcap">YOU </span>people of the earth.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter96_verse10"></a><b><sup>10 </sup></b>Say among the nations: “Jehovah himself has become king.</p>
<p class="sz">The productive land also becomes firmly established so that it cannot be made to totter.</p>
<p class="sz">He will plead the cause of the peoples in uprightness.”</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="page794"></a><a id="chapter96_verse11"></a><b><sup>11 </sup></b>Let the heavens rejoice, and let the earth be joyful.</p>
<p class="sz">Let the sea thunder and that which fills it.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter96_verse12"></a><b><sup>12 </sup></b>Let the open field exult and all that is in it.</p>
<p class="sz">At the same time let all the trees of the forest break out joyfully</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter96_verse13"></a><b><sup>13 </sup></b>Before Jehovah. For he has come;</p>
<p class="sz">For he has come to judge the earth.</p>
<p class="sp">He will judge the productive land with righteousness</p>
<p class="sz">And the peoples with his faithfulness.</p>
</body>
</html>
