<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="application/xhtml+xml; charset=utf-8" />
<title>Psalm 7</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/bi12.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
<p class="w_biblebookname">Psalms</p><p class="sw">A dirge of David that he sang to Jehovah concerning the words of Cush the Ben′ja·min·ite.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter7"></a><a id="chapter7_verse1"></a><span class="w_ch"><b>7 </b></span>O Jehovah my God, in you I have taken refuge.</p>
<p class="sz">Save me from all those persecuting me and deliver me,</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter7_verse2"></a> <b><sup>2 </sup></b>That no one may tear my soul to pieces as a lion does,</p>
<p class="sz">Snatching me away when there is no deliverer.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter7_verse3"></a> <b><sup>3 </sup></b>O Jehovah my God, if I have done this,</p>
<p class="sz">If there exists any injustice in my hands,</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter7_verse4"></a> <b><sup>4 </sup></b>If I have repaid the one rewarding me with what is bad,</p>
<p class="sz">Or if I have despoiled anyone showing hostility to me without success,</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter7_verse5"></a> <b><sup>5 </sup></b>Let an enemy pursue my soul</p>
<p class="sz">And let him overtake and trample my life down to the very earth</p>
<p class="sz">And cause my own glory to reside in the dust itself. <i>Se′lah.</i></p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter7_verse6"></a> <b><sup>6 </sup></b>Do arise, O Jehovah, in your anger;</p>
<p class="sz">Lift yourself up at the outbursts of fury of those showing hostility to me,</p>
<p class="sz">And do awake for me, since you have given command for judgment itself.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter7_verse7"></a> <b><sup>7 </sup></b>And let the very assembly of national groups surround you,</p>
<p class="sz">And against it do you return on high.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter7_verse8"></a> <b><sup>8 </sup></b>Jehovah himself will pass sentence on the peoples.</p>
<p class="sz">Judge me, O Jehovah, according to my righteousness</p>
<p class="sz">And according to my integrity in me.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter7_verse9"></a> <b><sup>9 </sup></b>Please, may the badness of wicked ones come to an end,</p>
<p class="sz">And may you establish the righteous one;</p>
<p class="sz">And God as righteous is testing out heart and kidneys.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter7_verse10"></a><b><sup>10 </sup></b>The shield for me is upon God, a Savior of those upright in heart.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter7_verse11"></a><b><sup>11 </sup></b>God is a righteous Judge,</p>
<p class="sz">And God is hurling denunciations every day.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter7_verse12"></a><b><sup>12 </sup></b>If anyone will not return, His sword he will sharpen,</p>
<p class="sz">His bow he will certainly bend, and he will make it ready for shooting.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter7_verse13"></a><b><sup>13 </sup></b>And for himself he must prepare the instruments of death;</p>
<p class="sz">His arrows he will make flaming ones.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter7_verse14"></a><b><sup>14 </sup></b>Look! There is one that is pregnant with what is hurtful,</p>
<p class="sz">And he has conceived trouble and is bound to give birth to falsehood.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter7_verse15"></a><b><sup>15 </sup></b>A pit he has excavated, and he proceeded to dig it;</p>
<p class="sz">But he will fall into the hole that he went making.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter7_verse16"></a><b><sup>16 </sup></b>His trouble will return upon his own head,</p>
<p class="sz"><a id="page719"></a>And upon the crown of his head his own violence will descend.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter7_verse17"></a><b><sup>17 </sup></b>I shall laud Jehovah according to his righteousness,</p>
<p class="sz">And I will make melody to the name of Jehovah the Most High.</p>
</body>
</html>
