<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="application/xhtml+xml; charset=utf-8" />
<title>Proverbs 21</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/bi12.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
<p class="w_biblebookname">Proverbs</p><p class="sb"><a id="chapter21"></a><a id="chapter21_verse1"></a><span class="w_ch"><b>21 </b></span>A king’s heart is as streams of water in the hand of Jehovah. Everywhere that he delights to, he turns it.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter21_verse2"></a><b><sup>2 </sup></b>Every way of a man is upright in his own eyes, but Jehovah is making an estimate of hearts.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter21_verse3"></a><b><sup>3 </sup></b>To carry on righteousness and judgment is more preferable to Jehovah than sacrifice.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter21_verse4"></a><b><sup>4 </sup></b>Haughty eyes and an arrogant heart, the lamp of the wicked ones, are sin.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter21_verse5"></a><b><sup>5 </sup></b>The plans of the diligent one surely make for advantage, but everyone that is hasty surely heads for want.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter21_verse6"></a><b><sup>6 </sup></b>The getting of treasures by a false tongue is an exhalation driven away, in the case of those seeking death.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter21_verse7"></a><b><sup>7 </sup></b>The very despoiling by the wicked ones will drag them away, for they have refused to do justice.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter21_verse8"></a><b><sup>8 </sup></b>A man, even a stranger, is crooked in his way; but the pure one is upright in his activity.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter21_verse9"></a><b><sup>9 </sup></b>Better is it to dwell upon a corner of a roof than with a contentious wife, although in a house in common.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter21_verse10"></a><b><sup>10 </sup></b>The very soul of the wicked one has craved what is bad; his fellow will be shown no favor in his eyes.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter21_verse11"></a><b><sup>11 </sup></b>By the laying of a fine on the ridiculer the inexperienced becomes wise; and by one’s giving insight to a wise person he gets knowledge.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter21_verse12"></a><b><sup>12 </sup></b>The Righteous One is giving consideration to the house of the wicked one, subverting the wicked ones to their calamity.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter21_verse13"></a><b><sup>13 </sup></b>As for anyone stopping up his ear from the complaining cry <a id="page860"></a>of the lowly one, he himself also will call and not be answered.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter21_verse14"></a><b><sup>14 </sup></b>A gift made in secrecy subdues anger; and a bribe in the bosom, strong rage.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter21_verse15"></a><b><sup>15 </sup></b>It is a rejoicing for the righteous one to do justice, but there is something terrible for those practicing what is hurtful.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter21_verse16"></a><b><sup>16 </sup></b>As for a man wandering from the way of insight, he will rest in the very congregation of those impotent in death.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter21_verse17"></a><b><sup>17 </sup></b>He that is loving merriment will be an individual in want; he that is loving wine and oil will not gain riches.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter21_verse18"></a><b><sup>18 </sup></b>The wicked is a ransom for the righteous one; and the one dealing treacherously takes the place of the upright ones.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter21_verse19"></a><b><sup>19 </sup></b>Better is it to dwell in a wilderness land than with a contentious wife along with vexation.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter21_verse20"></a><b><sup>20 </sup></b>Desirable treasure and oil are in the abode of the wise one, but the man that is stupid will swallow it up.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter21_verse21"></a><b><sup>21 </sup></b>He that is pursuing righteousness and loving-kindness will find life, righteousness and glory.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter21_verse22"></a><b><sup>22 </sup></b>A wise one has scaled even the city of mighty men, that he might bring down the strength of its confidence.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter21_verse23"></a><b><sup>23 </sup></b>He that is keeping his mouth and his tongue is keeping his soul from distresses.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter21_verse24"></a><b><sup>24 </sup></b>Presumptuous, self-assuming braggart is the name of the one who is acting in a fury of presumptuousness.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter21_verse25"></a><b><sup>25 </sup></b>The very craving of the lazy will put him to death, for his hands have refused to work. <a id="chapter21_verse26"></a><b><sup>26 </sup></b>All the day he has shown himself eagerly craving, but the righteous one gives and holds nothing back.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter21_verse27"></a><b><sup>27 </sup></b>The sacrifice of the wicked ones is something detestable. How much more so when one brings it along with loose conduct.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter21_verse28"></a><b><sup>28 </sup></b>A lying witness will perish, but the man that is listening will speak even forever.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter21_verse29"></a><b><sup>29 </sup></b>A wicked man has put on a bold face, but the upright is the one that will firmly establish his ways.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter21_verse30"></a><b><sup>30 </sup></b>There is no wisdom, nor any discernment, nor any counsel in opposition to Jehovah.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter21_verse31"></a><b><sup>31 </sup></b>The horse is something prepared for the day of battle, but salvation belongs to Jehovah.</p>
</body>
</html>
