<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="application/xhtml+xml; charset=utf-8" />
<title>Proverbs 31</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/bi12.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
<p class="w_biblebookname">Proverbs</p><p class="sb"><a id="chapter31"></a><a id="chapter31_verse1"></a><span class="w_ch"><b>31 </b></span>The words of Lem′u·el the king, the weighty message that his mother gave to him in correction:</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter31_verse2"></a><b><sup>2 </sup></b>What am I saying, O son of mine, and what, O son of my belly, and what, O son of my vows?</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter31_verse3"></a><b><sup>3 </sup></b>Do not give your vital energy to women, nor your ways to what leads to wiping out kings.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter31_verse4"></a><b><sup>4 </sup></b>It is not for kings, O Lem′u·el, it is not for kings to drink wine or for high officials to say: “Where is intoxicating liquor?” <a id="chapter31_verse5"></a><b><sup>5 </sup></b>that one may not drink and forget what is decreed and pervert the cause of any of the sons of affliction. <a id="chapter31_verse6"></a><b><sup>6 </sup></b>Give intoxicating liquor, <span class="smcap">YOU </span>people, to the one about to perish and wine to those who are bitter of soul. <a id="chapter31_verse7"></a><b><sup>7 </sup></b>Let one drink and forget one’s poverty, and let one remember one’s own trouble no more.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter31_verse8"></a><b><sup>8 </sup></b>Open your mouth for the speechless one, in the cause of all those passing away. <a id="chapter31_verse9"></a><b><sup>9 </sup></b>Open your mouth, judge righteously <a id="page871"></a>and plead the cause of the afflicted one and the poor one.</p>
<p class="ss"><span class="smcap">א </span>[<i>ʼA′leph</i>]</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter31_verse10"></a><b><sup>10 </sup></b>A capable wife who can find? Her value is far more than that of corals.</p>
<p class="ss"><span class="smcap">ב </span>[<i>Behth</i>]</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter31_verse11"></a><b><sup>11 </sup></b>In her the heart of her owner has put trust, and there is no gain lacking.</p>
<p class="ss"><span class="smcap">ג </span>[<i>Gi′mel</i>]</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter31_verse12"></a><b><sup>12 </sup></b>She has rewarded him with good, and not bad, all the days of her life.</p>
<p class="ss"><span class="smcap">ד </span>[<i>Da′leth</i>]</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter31_verse13"></a><b><sup>13 </sup></b>She has sought wool and linen, and she works at whatever is the delight of her hands.</p>
<p class="ss"><span class="smcap">ה </span>[<i>He</i>ʼ]</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter31_verse14"></a><b><sup>14 </sup></b>She has proved to be like the ships of a merchant. From far away she brings in her food.</p>
<p class="ss"><span class="smcap">ו </span>[<i>Waw</i>]</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter31_verse15"></a><b><sup>15 </sup></b>She also gets up while it is still night, and gives food to her household and the prescribed portion to her young women.</p>
<p class="ss"><span class="smcap">ז </span>[<i>Za′yin</i>]</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter31_verse16"></a><b><sup>16 </sup></b>She has considered a field and proceeded to obtain it; from the fruitage of her hands she has planted a vineyard.</p>
<p class="ss"><span class="smcap">ח </span>[<i>Chehth</i>]</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter31_verse17"></a><b><sup>17 </sup></b>She has girded her hips with strength, and she invigorates her arms.</p>
<p class="ss"><span class="smcap">ט </span>[<i>Tehth</i>]</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter31_verse18"></a><b><sup>18 </sup></b>She has sensed that her trading is good; her lamp does not go out at night.</p>
<p class="ss"><span class="smcap">י </span>[<i>Yohdh</i>]</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter31_verse19"></a><b><sup>19 </sup></b>Her hands she has thrust out to the distaff, and her own hands take hold of the spindle.</p>
<p class="ss"><span class="smcap">כ </span>[<i>Kaph</i>]</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter31_verse20"></a><b><sup>20 </sup></b>Her palm she has stretched out to the afflicted one, and her hands she has thrust out to the poor one.</p>
<p class="ss"><span class="smcap">ל </span>[<i>La′medh</i>]</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter31_verse21"></a><b><sup>21 </sup></b>She does not fear for her household because of the snow, for all her household are clothed with double garments.</p>
<p class="ss"><span class="smcap">מ </span>[<i>Mem</i>]</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter31_verse22"></a><b><sup>22 </sup></b>Coverlets she has made for herself. Her clothing is of linen and wool dyed reddish purple.</p>
<p class="ss"><span class="smcap">נ </span>[<i>Nun</i>]</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter31_verse23"></a><b><sup>23 </sup></b>Her owner is someone known in the gates, when he sits down with the older men of the land.</p>
<p class="ss"><span class="smcap">ס </span>[<i>Sa′mekh</i>]</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter31_verse24"></a><b><sup>24 </sup></b>She has made even undergarments and proceeded to sell them, and belts she has given to the tradesmen.</p>
<p class="ss"><span class="smcap">ע </span>[<i>ʽA′yin</i>]</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter31_verse25"></a><b><sup>25 </sup></b>Strength and splendor are her clothing, and she laughs at a future day.</p>
<p class="ss"><span class="smcap">פ </span>[<i>Peʼ</i>]</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter31_verse26"></a><b><sup>26 </sup></b>Her mouth she has opened in wisdom, and the law of loving-kindness is upon her tongue.</p>
<p class="ss"><span class="smcap">צ </span>[<i>Tsa·dheh′</i>]</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter31_verse27"></a><b><sup>27 </sup></b>She is watching over the goings-on of her household, and the bread of laziness she does not eat.</p>
<p class="ss"><span class="smcap">ק </span>[<i>Qohph</i>]</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter31_verse28"></a><b><sup>28 </sup></b>Her sons have risen up and proceeded to pronounce her happy; her owner rises up, and he praises her.</p>
<p class="ss"><span class="smcap">ר </span>[<i>Rehsh</i>]</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter31_verse29"></a><b><sup>29 </sup></b>There are many daughters that have shown capableness, but you—you have ascended above them all.</p>
<p class="ss"><span class="smcap">ש </span>[<i>Shin</i>]</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter31_verse30"></a><b><sup>30 </sup></b>Charm may be false, and prettiness may be vain; but the woman that fears Jehovah is the one that procures praise for herself.</p>
<p class="ss"><span class="smcap">ת </span>[<i>Taw</i>]</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter31_verse31"></a><b><sup>31 </sup></b>G<span class="smcap">IVE </span>her of the fruitage of her hands, and let her works praise her even in the gates.</p>
</body>
</html>
