<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="application/xhtml+xml; charset=utf-8" />
<title>Song of Solomon 7</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/bi12.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
<p class="w_biblebookname">Song of Solomon</p><p class="sb"><a id="chapter7"></a><a id="chapter7_verse1"></a><span class="w_ch"><b>7 </b></span>“How beautiful your steps have become in your sandals, O willing daughter! The curvings of your thighs are like ornaments, the work of an artisan’s hands. <a id="chapter7_verse2"></a><b><sup>2 </sup></b>Your navel roll is a round bowl. Let not the mixed wine be lacking from it. Your belly is a heap of wheat, fenced about with lilies. <a id="chapter7_verse3"></a><b><sup>3 </sup></b>Your two breasts are like two young ones, the twins of a female gazelle. <a id="chapter7_verse4"></a><b><sup>4 </sup></b>Your neck is like an ivory tower. Your eyes are like the pools in Hesh′bon, by the gate of Bath-rab′bim. Your nose is like the tower of Leb′a·non, which is looking out toward Damascus. <a id="chapter7_verse5"></a><b><sup>5 </sup></b>Your head upon you is like Car′mel, and the tresses of your head are like wool dyed reddish purple. The king is held bound by the flowings. <a id="chapter7_verse6"></a><b><sup>6 </sup></b>How beautiful you are, and how pleasant you are, O beloved girl, among exquisite delights! <a id="chapter7_verse7"></a><b><sup>7 </sup></b>This stature of yours does resemble a palm tree, and your breasts, date clusters. <a id="chapter7_verse8"></a><b><sup>8 </sup></b>I have said, ‘I shall go up on the palm tree, that I may take hold of its fruit stalks of dates.’ And, please, may your breasts become like clusters of the vine, and the fragrance of your nose like apples, <a id="chapter7_verse9"></a><b><sup>9 </sup></b>and your palate like the best wine that is going with a slickness for my dear one, softly flowing over the lips of sleeping ones.”</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter7_verse10"></a><b><sup>10 </sup></b>“I am my dear one’s, and toward me is his craving. <a id="chapter7_verse11"></a><b><sup>11 </sup></b>Do come, O my dear one, let us go forth to the field; do let us lodge among the henna plants. <a id="chapter7_verse12"></a><b><sup>12 </sup></b>Do let us rise early and go to the vineyards, that we may see whether the vine has sprouted, the blossom has burst open, the pomegranate trees have bloomed. There I shall give my expressions of endearment to you. <a id="chapter7_verse13"></a><b><sup>13 </sup></b>The mandrakes themselves have given their fragrance, and by our entranceways there are all sorts of the choicest fruits. The new ones as well as the old, O my dear one, I have treasured up for you.</p>
</body>
</html>
