<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="application/xhtml+xml; charset=utf-8" />
<title>Song of Solomon 5</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/bi12.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
<p class="w_biblebookname">Song of Solomon</p><p class="sb"><a id="chapter5"></a><a id="chapter5_verse1"></a><span class="w_ch"><b>5 </b></span>“I have come into my garden, O my sister, my bride. I have plucked my myrrh along with my spice. I have eaten my <a id="page886"></a>honeycomb along with my honey; I have drunk my wine along with my milk.”</p>
<p class="sb">“Eat, O companions! Drink and become drunk with expressions of endearment!”</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter5_verse2"></a><b><sup>2 </sup></b>“I am asleep, but my heart is awake. There is the sound of my dear one knocking!”</p>
<p class="sb">“Open to me, O my sister, my girl companion, my dove, my blameless one! For my head is filled with dew, the locks of my hair with the drops of the night.”</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter5_verse3"></a><b><sup>3 </sup></b>“‘I have put off my robe. How can I put it back on? I have washed my feet. How can I soil them?’ <a id="chapter5_verse4"></a><b><sup>4 </sup></b>My dear one himself pulled back his hand from the hole of the door, and my inward parts themselves became boisterous within me. <a id="chapter5_verse5"></a><b><sup>5 </sup></b>I got up, even I, to open to my dear one, and my own hands dripped with myrrh and my fingers with liquid myrrh, upon the hollows of the lock. <a id="chapter5_verse6"></a><b><sup>6 </sup></b>I opened, even I, to my dear one, but my dear one himself had turned away, he had passed along. My very soul had gone out of me when he spoke. I sought him, but I did not find him. I called him, but he did not answer me. <a id="chapter5_verse7"></a><b><sup>7 </sup></b>The watchmen that were going about in the city found me. They struck me, they wounded me. The watchmen of the walls lifted my wide wrap off me.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter5_verse8"></a><b><sup>8 </sup></b>“I have put <span class="smcap">YOU </span>under oath, O daughters of Jerusalem, that, if <span class="smcap">YOU </span>find my dear one, <span class="smcap">YOU </span>should tell him that I am lovesick.”</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter5_verse9"></a><b><sup>9 </sup></b>“How is your dear one more than any other dear one, O you most beautiful one among women? How is your dear one more than any other dear one, that you have put us under such an oath as this?”</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter5_verse10"></a><b><sup>10 </sup></b>“My dear one is dazzling and ruddy, the most conspicuous of ten thousand. <a id="chapter5_verse11"></a><b><sup>11 </sup></b>His head is gold, refined gold. The locks of his hair are date clusters. His black hair is like the raven. <a id="chapter5_verse12"></a><b><sup>12 </sup></b>His eyes are like doves by the channels of water, which are bathing themselves in milk, sitting within the rims. <a id="chapter5_verse13"></a><b><sup>13 </sup></b>His cheeks are like a garden bed of spice, towers of scented herbs. His lips are lilies, dripping with liquid myrrh. <a id="chapter5_verse14"></a><b><sup>14 </sup></b>His hands are cylinders of gold, filled with chrys′o·lite. His abdomen is an ivory plate covered with sapphires. <a id="chapter5_verse15"></a><b><sup>15 </sup></b>His legs are pillars of marble based on socket pedestals of refined gold. His appearance is like Leb′a·non, choice like the cedars. <a id="chapter5_verse16"></a><b><sup>16 </sup></b>His palate is sheer sweetness, and everything about him is altogether desirable. This is my dear one, and this is my boy companion, O daughters of Jerusalem.”</p>
</body>
</html>
