<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="application/xhtml+xml; charset=utf-8" />
<title>Isaiah 33</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/bi12.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
<p class="w_biblebookname">Isaiah</p><p class="sb"><a id="chapter33"></a><a id="chapter33_verse1"></a><span class="w_ch"><b>33 </b></span>Woe to you who are despoiling, without you yourself being despoiled, and to you who are dealing treacherously, without others having dealt treacherously with you! As soon as you have finished as a despoiler, you will be despoiled. As soon as you have done with dealing treacherously, they will deal treacherously with you.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter33_verse2"></a><b><sup>2 </sup></b>O Jehovah, show us favor. In you we have hoped. Become our arm every morning, yes, our salvation in the time of distress. <a id="chapter33_verse3"></a><b><sup>3 </sup></b>At the sound of turmoil peoples <a id="page923"></a>have fled. At your arising nations have been dispersed. <a id="chapter33_verse4"></a><b><sup>4 </sup></b>And the spoil of <span class="smcap">YOU </span>people will actually be gathered like the cockroaches when gathering in, like the onrush of locust swarms that is rushing against one. <a id="chapter33_verse5"></a><b><sup>5 </sup></b>Jehovah will certainly be put on high, for he is residing in the height. He must fill Zion with justice and righteousness. <a id="chapter33_verse6"></a><b><sup>6 </sup></b>And the trustworthiness of your times must prove to be a wealth of salvations—wisdom and knowledge, the fear of Jehovah, which is his treasure.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter33_verse7"></a><b><sup>7 </sup></b>Look! Their very heroes have cried out in the street; the very messengers of peace will weep bitterly. <a id="chapter33_verse8"></a><b><sup>8 </sup></b>The highways have been made desolate; the one passing over the path has ceased. He has broken the covenant; he has contemned the cities; he has taken no account of mortal man. <a id="chapter33_verse9"></a><b><sup>9 </sup></b>The land has gone mourning, has withered away. Leb′a·non has become abashed; it has moldered. Shar′on has become like the desert plain; and Ba′shan and Car′mel are shaking off their leaves.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter33_verse10"></a><b><sup>10 </sup></b>“Now I will rise up,” says Jehovah, “now I will exalt myself; now I will lift myself up. <a id="chapter33_verse11"></a><b><sup>11 </sup></b>Y<span class="smcap">OU </span>people conceive dried grass; <span class="smcap">YOU </span>will give birth to stubble. Y<span class="smcap">OUR </span>own spirit, as a fire, will eat <span class="smcap">YOU </span>up. <a id="chapter33_verse12"></a><b><sup>12 </sup></b>And peoples must become as the burnings of lime. As thorns cut away, they will be set ablaze even with fire. <a id="chapter33_verse13"></a><b><sup>13 </sup></b>Hear, <span class="smcap">YOU </span>men who are far away, what I must do! And know, <span class="smcap">YOU </span>who are nearby, my mightiness. <a id="chapter33_verse14"></a><b><sup>14 </sup></b>In Zion the sinners have come to be in dread; shivering has grabbed hold of the apostates: ‘Who of us can reside for any time with a devouring fire? Who of us can reside for any time with long-lasting conflagrations?’</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter33_verse15"></a><b><sup>15 </sup></b>“There is one who is walking in continual righteousness and speaking what is upright, who is rejecting the unjust gain from frauds, who is shaking his hands clear from taking hold on a bribe, who is stopping up his ear from listening to bloodshed, and who is closing his eyes so as not to see what is bad. <a id="chapter33_verse16"></a><b><sup>16 </sup></b>He is the one that will reside on the heights themselves; his secure height will be craggy places difficult to approach. His own bread will certainly be given him; his water supply will be unfailing.”</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter33_verse17"></a><b><sup>17 </sup></b>A king in his handsomeness is what your eyes will behold; they will see a land far away. <a id="chapter33_verse18"></a><b><sup>18 </sup></b>Your own heart will comment in low tones on a frightful thing: “Where is the secretary? Where is the one that does the paying out? Where is the one counting the towers?” <a id="chapter33_verse19"></a><b><sup>19 </sup></b>No insolent people will you see, a people too deep in language to listen to, of a stammering tongue without your understanding. <a id="chapter33_verse20"></a><b><sup>20 </sup></b>Behold Zion, the town of our festal occasions! Your own eyes will see Jerusalem an undisturbed abiding place, a tent that no one will pack up. Never will its tent pins be pulled out, and none of its ropes will be torn in two. <a id="chapter33_verse21"></a><b><sup>21 </sup></b>But there the Majestic One, Jehovah, will be for us a place of rivers, of wide canals. On it no galley fleet will go, and no majestic ship will pass over it. <a id="chapter33_verse22"></a><b><sup>22 </sup></b>For Jehovah is our Judge, Jehovah is our Statute-giver, Jehovah is our King; he himself will save us.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter33_verse23"></a><b><sup>23 </sup></b>Your ropes must hang loose; their mast they will not hold firmly erect; they have not spread a sail.</p>
<p class="sb">At that time even spoil in <a id="page924"></a>abundance will have to be divided up; the lame ones themselves will actually take a big plunder. <a id="chapter33_verse24"></a><b><sup>24 </sup></b>And no resident will say: “I am sick.” The people that are dwelling in the land will be those pardoned for their error.</p>
</body>
</html>
