<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="application/xhtml+xml; charset=utf-8" />
<title>Isaiah 28</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/bi12.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
<p class="w_biblebookname">Isaiah</p><p class="sb"><a id="chapter28"></a><a id="chapter28_verse1"></a><span class="w_ch"><b>28 </b></span>Woe to the eminent crown of the drunkards of E′phra·im, and the fading blossom of its decoration of beauty that is upon the head of the fertile valley of those overpowered by wine! <a id="chapter28_verse2"></a><b><sup>2 </sup></b>Look! Jehovah has someone strong and vigorous. Like a thunderous storm of hail, a destructive storm, like a thunderous storm of powerful, flooding waters, he will certainly do a casting down to the earth with force. <a id="chapter28_verse3"></a><b><sup>3 </sup></b>With the feet the eminent crowns of the drunkards of E′phra·im will be trampled down. <a id="chapter28_verse4"></a><b><sup>4 </sup></b>And the fading flower of its decoration of beauty that is upon the head of the fertile valley must become like the early fig before summer, that, when the seer sees it, while it is yet in his palm, he swallows it down.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter28_verse5"></a><b><sup>5 </sup></b>In that day Jehovah of armies will become as a crown of decoration and as a garland of beauty to the ones remaining over of his people, <a id="chapter28_verse6"></a><b><sup>6 </sup></b>and as a spirit of justice to the one sitting in the judgment, and as mightiness to those turning away the battle from the gate.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter28_verse7"></a><b><sup>7 </sup></b>And these also—because of wine they have gone astray and because of intoxicating liquor they have wandered about. Priest and prophet—they have gone astray because of intoxicating liquor, they have become confused as a result of the wine, they have wandered about as a result of the intoxicating liquor; they have gone astray in their seeing, they have reeled as to decision. <a id="chapter28_verse8"></a><b><sup>8 </sup></b>For the tables themselves have all become full of filthy vomit—there is no place without it.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter28_verse9"></a><b><sup>9 </sup></b>Whom will one instruct in knowledge, and whom will one make understand what has been heard? Those who have been weaned from the milk, those moved away from the breasts? <a id="chapter28_verse10"></a><b><sup>10 </sup></b>For it is “command upon command, command upon command, measuring line upon measuring line, measuring line upon measuring line, here a little, there a little.” <a id="chapter28_verse11"></a><b><sup>11 </sup></b>For by those stammering with their lips and by a different tongue he will speak to this people, <a id="chapter28_verse12"></a><b><sup>12 </sup></b>those to whom he has said: “This is the resting-place. G<span class="smcap">IVE </span>rest to the weary one. And this is the place of ease,” but who were not willing to hear. <a id="chapter28_verse13"></a><b><sup>13 </sup></b>And to them the word of Jehovah will certainly become “command upon command, command upon command, measuring line upon measuring line, measuring line upon measuring line, here a little, there a little,” in order that they may go and certainly stumble backwards and actually be broken and ensnared and caught.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter28_verse14"></a><b><sup>14 </sup></b>Therefore hear the word of Jehovah, <span class="smcap">YOU </span>braggarts, <span class="smcap">YOU </span>rulers of this people who are in Jerusalem: <a id="chapter28_verse15"></a><b><sup>15 </sup></b>Because <span class="smcap">YOU </span>men have said: “We have concluded a covenant with Death; and with She′ol we have effected a vision; the overflowing flash flood, in case it should pass through, will not come to us, for we have made a lie our refuge and in falsehood we have concealed ourselves”; <a id="chapter28_verse16"></a><b><sup>16 </sup></b>therefore this is what the Sovereign Lord Jehovah has said: “Here I am laying as <a id="page917"></a>a foundation in Zion a stone, a tried stone, the precious corner of a sure foundation. No one exercising faith will get panicky. <a id="chapter28_verse17"></a><b><sup>17 </sup></b>And I will make justice the measuring line and righteousness the leveling instrument; and the hail must sweep away the refuge of a lie, and the waters themselves will flood out the very place of concealment. <a id="chapter28_verse18"></a><b><sup>18 </sup></b>And <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>covenant with Death will certainly be dissolved, and that vision of <span class="smcap">YOURS </span>with She′ol will not stand. The overflowing flash flood, when it passes through—<span class="smcap">YOU </span>must also become for it a trampling place. <a id="chapter28_verse19"></a><b><sup>19 </sup></b>As often as it passes through, it will take <span class="smcap">YOU </span>men away, because morning by morning it will pass through, during the day and during the night; and it must become nothing but a reason for quaking to make others understand what has been heard.”</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter28_verse20"></a><b><sup>20 </sup></b>For the couch has proved too short for stretching oneself on, and the woven sheet itself is too narrow when wrapping oneself up. <a id="chapter28_verse21"></a><b><sup>21 </sup></b>For Jehovah will rise up just as at Mount Pe·ra′zim, he will be agitated just as in the low plain near Gib′e·on, that he may do his deed—his deed is strange—and that he may work his work—his work is unusual. <a id="chapter28_verse22"></a><b><sup>22 </sup></b>And now do not show yourselves scoffers, in order that <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>bands may not grow strong, for there is an extermination, even something decided upon, that I have heard of from the Sovereign Lord, Jehovah of armies, for all the land.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter28_verse23"></a><b><sup>23 </sup></b>Give ear, <span class="smcap">YOU </span>men, and listen to my voice; pay attention and listen to my saying. <a id="chapter28_verse24"></a><b><sup>24 </sup></b>Is it all day long that the plower plows in order to sow seed, that he loosens and harrows his ground? <a id="chapter28_verse25"></a><b><sup>25 </sup></b>Does he not, when he has smoothed out its surface, then scatter black cumin and sprinkle the cumin, and must he not put in wheat, millet, and barley in the appointed place, and spelt as his boundary? <a id="chapter28_verse26"></a><b><sup>26 </sup></b>And one corrects him according to what is right. His own God instructs him. <a id="chapter28_verse27"></a><b><sup>27 </sup></b>For it is not with a threshing instrument that black cumin is given a treading; and upon cumin no wheel of a wagon is turned. For it is with a rod that black cumin is generally beaten out, and cumin with a staff. <a id="chapter28_verse28"></a><b><sup>28 </sup></b>Is breadstuff itself generally crushed? For never does one incessantly keep treading it out. And he must set the roller of his wagon in motion, and his own steeds, but he will not crush it. <a id="chapter28_verse29"></a><b><sup>29 </sup></b>This also is what has come forth from Jehovah of armies himself, who has been wonderful in counsel, who has done greatly in effectual working.</p>
</body>
</html>
