<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="application/xhtml+xml; charset=utf-8" />
<title>Isaiah 45</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/bi12.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
<p class="w_biblebookname">Isaiah</p><p class="sb"><a id="chapter45"></a><a id="chapter45_verse1"></a><span class="w_ch"><b>45 </b></span>This is what Jehovah has said to his anointed one, to Cyrus, whose right hand I have taken hold of, to subdue <a id="page939"></a>before him nations, so that I may ungird even the hips of kings; to open before him the two-leaved doors, so that even the gates will not be shut: <a id="chapter45_verse2"></a><b><sup>2 </sup></b>“Before you I myself shall go, and the swells of land I shall straighten out. The copper doors I shall break in pieces, and the iron bars I shall cut down. <a id="chapter45_verse3"></a><b><sup>3 </sup></b>And I will give you the treasures in the darkness and the hidden treasures in the concealment places, in order that you may know that I am Jehovah, the One calling you by your name, the God of Israel. <a id="chapter45_verse4"></a><b><sup>4 </sup></b>For the sake of my servant Jacob and of Israel my chosen one, I even proceeded to call you by your name; I proceeded to give you a name of honor, although you did not know me. <a id="chapter45_verse5"></a><b><sup>5 </sup></b>I am Jehovah, and there is no one else. With the exception of me there is no God. I shall closely gird you, although you have not known me, <a id="chapter45_verse6"></a><b><sup>6 </sup></b>in order that people may know from the rising of the sun and from its setting that there is none besides me. I am Jehovah, and there is no one else. <a id="chapter45_verse7"></a><b><sup>7 </sup></b>Forming light and creating darkness, making peace and creating calamity, I, Jehovah, am doing all these things.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter45_verse8"></a><b><sup>8 </sup></b>“O <span class="smcap">YOU </span>heavens, cause a dripping from above; and let the cloudy skies themselves trickle with righteousness. Let the earth open up, and let it be fruitful with salvation, and let it cause righteousness itself to spring up at the same time. I myself, Jehovah, have created it.”</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter45_verse9"></a><b><sup>9 </sup></b>Woe to the one that has contended with his Former, as an earthenware fragment with the other earthenware fragments of the ground! Should the clay say to its former: “What do you make?” And your achievement say: “He has no hands”? <a id="chapter45_verse10"></a><b><sup>10 </sup></b>Woe to the one saying to a father: “What do you become father to?” and to the wife: “What are you in birth pains with?”</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter45_verse11"></a><b><sup>11 </sup></b>This is what Jehovah has said, the Holy One of Israel and the Former of him: “Ask me even about the things that are coming concerning my sons; and concerning the activity of my hands <span class="smcap">YOU </span>people should command me. <a id="chapter45_verse12"></a><b><sup>12 </sup></b>I myself have made the earth and have created even man upon it. I—my own hands have stretched out the heavens, and all the army of them I have commanded.”</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter45_verse13"></a><b><sup>13 </sup></b>“I myself have roused up someone in righteousness, and all his ways I shall straighten out. He is the one that will build my city, and those of mine in exile he will let go, not for a price nor for bribery,” Jehovah of armies has said.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter45_verse14"></a><b><sup>14 </sup></b>This is what Jehovah has said: “The unpaid laborers of Egypt and the merchants of E·thi·o′pi·a and the Sa·be′ans, tall men, will themselves come over even to you, and yours they will become. Behind you they will walk; in fetters they will come over, and to you they will bow down. To you they will pray, saying, ‘Indeed God is in union with you, and there is no one else; there is no other God.’”</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter45_verse15"></a><b><sup>15 </sup></b>Truly you are a God keeping yourself concealed, the God of Israel, a Savior. <a id="chapter45_verse16"></a><b><sup>16 </sup></b>They will certainly be ashamed and even be humiliated, all of them. Together in humiliation the manufacturers of idol forms will have to walk. <a id="chapter45_verse17"></a><b><sup>17 </sup></b>As for Israel, he will certainly be saved in union with Jehovah with a salvation for times indefinite. Y<span class="smcap">OU </span>people will not be ashamed, nor <a id="page940"></a>will <span class="smcap">YOU </span>be humiliated for the indefinite times of eternity.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter45_verse18"></a><b><sup>18 </sup></b>For this is what Jehovah has said, the Creator of the heavens, He the true God, the Former of the earth and the Maker of it, He the One who firmly established it, who did not create it simply for nothing, who formed it even to be inhabited: “I am Jehovah, and there is no one else. <a id="chapter45_verse19"></a><b><sup>19 </sup></b>In a place of concealment I spoke not, in a dark place of the earth; nor said I to the seed of Jacob, ‘Seek me simply for nothing, <span class="smcap">YOU </span>people.’ I am Jehovah, speaking what is righteous, telling what is upright.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter45_verse20"></a><b><sup>20 </sup></b>“Collect yourselves and come. Bring yourselves up close together, <span class="smcap">YOU </span>escapees from the nations. Those carrying the wood of their carved image have not come to any knowledge, neither have those praying to a god that cannot save. <a id="chapter45_verse21"></a><b><sup>21 </sup></b>Make <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>report and <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>presentation. Yes, let them consult together in unity. Who has caused this to be heard from a long time ago? Who has reported it from that very time? Is it not I, Jehovah, besides whom there is no other God; a righteous God and a Savior, there being none excepting me?</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter45_verse22"></a><b><sup>22 </sup></b>“Turn to me and be saved, all <span class="smcap">YOU </span>at the ends of the earth; for I am God, and there is no one else. <a id="chapter45_verse23"></a><b><sup>23 </sup></b>By my own self I have sworn—out of my own mouth in righteousness the word has gone forth, so that it will not return—that to me every knee will bend down, every tongue will swear, <a id="chapter45_verse24"></a><b><sup>24 </sup></b>saying, ‘Surely in Jehovah there are full righteousness and strength. All those getting heated up against him will come straight to him and be ashamed. <a id="chapter45_verse25"></a><b><sup>25 </sup></b>In Jehovah all the seed of Israel will prove to be right and will boast about themselves.’”</p>
</body>
</html>
