<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="application/xhtml+xml; charset=utf-8" />
<title>Jeremiah 28</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/bi12.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
<p class="w_biblebookname">Jeremiah</p><p class="sb"><a id="chapter28"></a><a id="chapter28_verse1"></a><span class="w_ch"><b>28 </b></span>Then it came about in that year, in the beginning of the kingdom of Zed·e·ki′ah the king of Judah, in the fourth year, in the fifth month, that Han·a·ni′ah the son of Az′zur, the prophet who was from Gib′e·on, said to me in the house of Jehovah before the eyes of the priests and of all the people: <a id="chapter28_verse2"></a><b><sup>2 </sup></b>“This is what Jehovah of armies, the God of Israel, has said, ‘I will break the yoke of the king of Babylon. <a id="chapter28_verse3"></a><b><sup>3 </sup></b>Within two full years more I am bringing back to this place all the utensils of the house of Jehovah that Neb·u·chad·nez′zar the king of Babylon took from this place that he might bring them to Babylon.’” <a id="chapter28_verse4"></a><b><sup>4 </sup></b>“‘And Jec·o·ni′ah the son of Je·hoi′a·kim, the king of Judah, and all the exiles of Judah who have come to Babylon I am bringing back to this place,’ is the utterance of Jehovah, ‘for I shall break the yoke of the king of Babylon.’”</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter28_verse5"></a><b><sup>5 </sup></b>And Jeremiah the prophet proceeded to say to Han·a·ni′ah the prophet before the eyes of the priests and before the eyes of all the people who were standing in the house of Jehovah; <a id="chapter28_verse6"></a><b><sup>6 </sup></b>yes, Jeremiah the prophet proceeded to say: “Amen! Thus may Jehovah do! May Jehovah establish your words that you have prophesied <a id="page1004"></a>by bringing back the utensils of the house of Jehovah and all the exiled people from Babylon to this place! <a id="chapter28_verse7"></a><b><sup>7 </sup></b>However, hear, please, this word that I am speaking in your ears and in the ears of all the people. <a id="chapter28_verse8"></a><b><sup>8 </sup></b>As regards the prophets that happened to be prior to me and prior to you from long ago, they also used to prophesy concerning many lands and concerning great kingdoms, of war and of calamity and of pestilence. <a id="chapter28_verse9"></a><b><sup>9 </sup></b>As regards the prophet that prophesies of peace, when the word of the prophet comes true the prophet whom Jehovah has sent in truth will become known.”</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter28_verse10"></a><b><sup>10 </sup></b>At that Han·a·ni′ah the prophet took the yoke bar from off the neck of Jeremiah the prophet and broke it. <a id="chapter28_verse11"></a><b><sup>11 </sup></b>And Han·a·ni′ah went on to say before the eyes of all the people: “This is what Jehovah has said, ‘Just like this I shall break the yoke of Neb·u·chad·nez′zar the king of Babylon within two full years more from off the neck of all the nations.’” And Jeremiah the prophet proceeded to go his way.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter28_verse12"></a><b><sup>12 </sup></b>Then the word of Jehovah occurred to Jeremiah, after Han·a·ni′ah the prophet had broken the yoke bar from off the neck of Jeremiah the prophet, saying: <a id="chapter28_verse13"></a><b><sup>13 </sup></b>“Go, and you must say to Han·a·ni′ah, ‘This is what Jehovah has said: “Yoke bars of wood you have broken, and instead of them you will have to make yoke bars of iron.” <a id="chapter28_verse14"></a><b><sup>14 </sup></b>For this is what Jehovah of armies, the God of Israel, has said: “A yoke of iron I will put upon the neck of all these nations, to serve Neb·u·chad·nez′zar the king of Babylon; and they must serve him. And even the wild beasts of the field I will give him.”’”</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter28_verse15"></a><b><sup>15 </sup></b>And Jeremiah the prophet went on to say to Han·a·ni′ah the prophet: “Listen, please, O Han·a·ni′ah! Jehovah has not sent you, but you yourself have caused this people to trust in a falsehood. <a id="chapter28_verse16"></a><b><sup>16 </sup></b>Therefore this is what Jehovah has said, ‘Look! I am sending you away from off the surface of the ground. This year you yourself must die, for you have spoken outright revolt against Jehovah.’”</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter28_verse17"></a><b><sup>17 </sup></b>So Han·a·ni′ah the prophet died in that year, in the seventh month.</p>
</body>
</html>
