<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="application/xhtml+xml; charset=utf-8" />
<title>Jeremiah 40</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/bi12.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
<p class="w_biblebookname">Jeremiah</p><p class="sb"><a id="chapter40"></a><a id="chapter40_verse1"></a><span class="w_ch"><b>40 </b></span>The word that occurred to Jeremiah from Jehovah after Neb·u′zar·ad′an the chief of the bodyguard sent him from Ra′mah, when he took him while he was bound with handcuffs in the midst of all the exiles of Jerusalem and of Judah, who were being taken into exile in Babylon. <a id="chapter40_verse2"></a><b><sup>2 </sup></b>Then the chief of the bodyguard took Jeremiah and said to him: “Jehovah your God himself spoke this calamity against this place, <a id="chapter40_verse3"></a><b><sup>3 </sup></b>that Jehovah might bring it true and do just as he has spoken, because <span class="smcap">YOU </span>people have sinned against Jehovah and have not obeyed his voice. And this thing has happened to <span class="smcap">YOU</span>. <a id="chapter40_verse4"></a><b><sup>4 </sup></b>And now, look! I have let you loose today from the handcuffs that were upon your hands. If it is good in your eyes to come with me to Babylon, come, and I shall keep my eye upon you. But if it is bad in your eyes to come with me to Babylon, refrain. See! The entire land is before you. To wherever it is good and right in your eyes to go, go there.”</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter40_verse5"></a><b><sup>5 </sup></b>And he was yet not one that would return, when Neb·u′zar·ad′an said: “Do return to Ged·a·li′ah the son of A·hi′kam the son of Sha′phan, whom the king of Babylon has commissioned over the cities of Judah, and dwell with him in the midst of the people; or to wherever it is right in your eyes to go, go.”</p>
<p class="sb">And the chief of the bodyguard then gave him a food allowance and a present and let him go. <a id="chapter40_verse6"></a><b><sup>6 </sup></b>Accordingly Jeremiah came to Ged·a·li′ah the son of A·hi′kam at Miz′pah and took up dwelling with him in the midst of the people who were left remaining in the land.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter40_verse7"></a><b><sup>7 </sup></b>In time all the chiefs of the military forces who were in the field, they and their men, got to hear that the king of Babylon had commissioned Ged·a·li′ah <a id="page1024"></a>the son of A·hi′kam over the land and that he had commissioned him over the men and women and little children and some of the lowly people of the land, who had not been taken into exile in Babylon. <a id="chapter40_verse8"></a><b><sup>8 </sup></b>So they came to Ged·a·li′ah at Miz′pah, even Ish′ma·el the son of Neth·a·ni′ah and Jo·ha′nan and Jon′a·than, the sons of Ka·re′ah, and Se·rai′ah the son of Tan·hu′meth and the sons of E′phai the Ne·toph′a·thite and Jez·a·ni′ah the son of the Ma·ac′a·thite, they and their men. <a id="chapter40_verse9"></a><b><sup>9 </sup></b>And Ged·a·li′ah the son of A·hi′kam the son of Sha′phan proceeded to swear to them and to their men, saying: “Do not be afraid of serving the Chal·de′ans. Continue dwelling in the land and serve the king of Babylon, and it will go well with <span class="smcap">YOU</span>. <a id="chapter40_verse10"></a><b><sup>10 </sup></b>And as for me, here I am dwelling in Miz′pah, in order to stand before the Chal·de′ans who will come to us. And as for <span class="smcap">YOU </span>yourselves, gather wine and summer fruits and oil and put them in <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>vessels and dwell in <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>cities that <span class="smcap">YOU </span>have seized.”</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter40_verse11"></a><b><sup>11 </sup></b>And all the Jews that were in Mo′ab and among the sons of Am′mon and in E′dom and those who were in all the other lands, they also heard that the king of Babylon had given a remnant to Judah and that he had commissioned over them Ged·a·li′ah the son of A·hi′kam the son of Sha′phan. <a id="chapter40_verse12"></a><b><sup>12 </sup></b>And all the Jews began to return from all the places to which they had been dispersed, and they kept coming into the land of Judah to Ged·a·li′ah at Miz′pah. And they went gathering wine and summer fruits in very great quantity.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter40_verse13"></a><b><sup>13 </sup></b>As for Jo·ha′nan the son of Ka·re′ah and all the chiefs of the military forces who were in the field, they came to Ged·a·li′ah at Miz′pah. <a id="chapter40_verse14"></a><b><sup>14 </sup></b>And they proceeded to say to him: “Do you not at all know that Ba′a·lis, the king of the sons of Am′mon, himself has sent Ish′ma·el the son of Neth·a·ni′ah to strike you to the soul?” But Ged·a·li′ah the son of A·hi′kam did not believe them.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter40_verse15"></a><b><sup>15 </sup></b>And Jo·ha′nan the son of Ka·re′ah himself said to Ged·a·li′ah, in a place of concealment in Miz′pah: “I want to go, now, and strike down Ish′ma·el the son of Neth·a·ni′ah, as no one at all will know. Why should he strike you to the soul, and why must all those of Judah who are being collected together to you be scattered and the remnant of Judah perish?” <a id="chapter40_verse16"></a><b><sup>16 </sup></b>But Ged·a·li′ah the son of A·hi′kam said to Jo·ha′nan the son of Ka·re′ah: “Do not do this thing, for it is a falsehood that you are speaking concerning Ish′ma·el.”</p>
</body>
</html>
