<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="application/xhtml+xml; charset=utf-8" />
<title>Jeremiah 36</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/bi12.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
<p class="w_biblebookname">Jeremiah</p><p class="sb"><a id="chapter36"></a><a id="chapter36_verse1"></a><span class="w_ch"><b>36 </b></span>Now it came about in the fourth year of Je·hoi′a·kim the son of Jo·si′ah, the king of Judah, that this word occurred to Jeremiah from Jehovah, saying: <a id="chapter36_verse2"></a><b><sup>2 </sup></b>“Take for yourself a roll of a book, and you must write in it all the words that I have spoken to you against Israel and against Judah and against all the nations, since the day that I spoke to you, since the days of Jo·si′ah, clear down to this day. <a id="chapter36_verse3"></a><b><sup>3 </sup></b>Perhaps those of the house of Judah will listen to all the calamity that I am thinking of doing to them, to the end that they may return, each one from his bad way, and that I may actually forgive their error and their sin.”</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter36_verse4"></a><b><sup>4 </sup></b>And Jeremiah proceeded to call Bar′uch the son of Ne·ri′ah that Bar′uch might write at the mouth of Jeremiah all the words of Jehovah that He had spoken to him, on the roll of the book. <a id="chapter36_verse5"></a><b><sup>5 </sup></b>Then Jeremiah commanded Bar′uch, saying: “I am shut up. I am unable to enter into the house of Jehovah. <a id="chapter36_verse6"></a><b><sup>6 </sup></b>And you yourself must enter in and read aloud from the roll that you have written at my mouth the words of Jehovah in the ears of the people at the house of Jehovah in the day of fast; and also in the ears of all Judah who are coming in from their cities you should read them aloud. <a id="chapter36_verse7"></a><b><sup>7 </sup></b>Perhaps their request for favor will fall before Jehovah and they will return, each one from his bad way, for great is the anger and the rage that Jehovah has spoken against this people.”</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter36_verse8"></a><b><sup>8 </sup></b>And Bar′uch the son of Ne·ri′ah proceeded to do according to all that Jeremiah the prophet had commanded him, to read aloud from the book the words of Jehovah at the house of Jehovah.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter36_verse9"></a><b><sup>9 </sup></b>Now it came about in the fifth year of Je·hoi′a·kim the son of Jo·si′ah, the king of Judah, in the ninth month, that all the people in Jerusalem and all the <a id="page1018"></a>people that were coming in from the cities of Judah into Jerusalem proclaimed a fast before Jehovah. <a id="chapter36_verse10"></a><b><sup>10 </sup></b>And Bar′uch began to read aloud from the book the words of Jeremiah at the house of Jehovah, in the dining room of Gem·a·ri′ah the son of Sha′phan the copyist, in the upper courtyard, at the entrance of the new gate of the house of Jehovah, in the ears of all the people.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter36_verse11"></a><b><sup>11 </sup></b>And Mi·cai′ah the son of Gem·a·ri′ah the son of Sha′phan got to hear all the words of Jehovah from out of the book. <a id="chapter36_verse12"></a><b><sup>12 </sup></b>At that he went down to the house of the king, to the dining room of the secretary, and, look! there is where all the princes were sitting, E·lish′a·ma the secretary and De·la′iah the son of She·mai′ah and El·na′than the son of Ach′bor and Gem·a·ri′ah the son of Sha′phan and Zed·e·ki′ah the son of Han·a·ni′ah and all the other princes. <a id="chapter36_verse13"></a><b><sup>13 </sup></b>And Mi·cai′ah proceeded to tell them all the words that he had heard when Bar′uch read aloud from the book in the ears of the people.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter36_verse14"></a><b><sup>14 </sup></b>Then all the princes sent out to Bar′uch Je·hu′di the son of Neth·a·ni′ah the son of Shel·e·mi′ah the son of Cush′i, saying: “The roll from which you read aloud in the ears of the people—take it in your hand and come.” Accordingly Bar′uch the son of Ne·ri′ah took the roll in his hand and came in to them. <a id="chapter36_verse15"></a><b><sup>15 </sup></b>Then they said to him: “Sit down, please, and read it aloud in our ears.” So Bar′uch read aloud in their ears.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter36_verse16"></a><b><sup>16 </sup></b>Now it came about that as soon as they heard all the words, they looked at one another in dread; and they proceeded to say to Bar′uch: “We shall without fail tell the king all these words.” <a id="chapter36_verse17"></a><b><sup>17 </sup></b>And Bar′uch they asked, saying: “Tell us, please, How did you write all these words from his mouth?” <a id="chapter36_verse18"></a><b><sup>18 </sup></b>Then Bar′uch said to them: “Out of his mouth he kept declaring to me all these words, and I was writing in the book with ink.” <a id="chapter36_verse19"></a><b><sup>19 </sup></b>Finally the princes said to Bar′uch: “Go, conceal yourself, you and Jeremiah, so that no one at all will know where <span class="smcap">YOU </span>men are.”</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter36_verse20"></a><b><sup>20 </sup></b>Then they came in to the king, to the courtyard, and the roll they entrusted to the dining room of E·lish′a·ma the secretary; and they began to tell all the words in the ears of the king.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter36_verse21"></a><b><sup>21 </sup></b>So the king sent Je·hu′di out to get the roll. Accordingly he got it out of the dining room of E·lish′a·ma the secretary. And Je·hu′di began to read it aloud in the ears of the king and in the ears of all the princes standing by the king. <a id="chapter36_verse22"></a><b><sup>22 </sup></b>And the king was sitting in the winter house, in the ninth month, with a brazier burning before him. <a id="chapter36_verse23"></a><b><sup>23 </sup></b>Then it came about that as soon as Je·hu′di had read three or four page-columns, he proceeded to tear it apart with the secretary’s knife, pitching it also into the fire that was in the brazier until all the roll ended up in the fire that was in the brazier. <a id="chapter36_verse24"></a><b><sup>24 </sup></b>And they felt no dread; neither did the king and all his servants, who were listening to all these words, rip their garments apart. <a id="chapter36_verse25"></a><b><sup>25 </sup></b>And even El·na′than and De·la′iah and Gem·a·ri′ah themselves pleaded with the king not to burn the roll, but he did not listen to them. <a id="chapter36_verse26"></a><b><sup>26 </sup></b>Further, the king commanded Je·rah′me·el the son of the king and Se·rai′ah the son of Az′ri·el and Shel·e·mi′ah the son of Ab′de·el to get Bar′uch the secretary and Jeremiah the prophet. But Jehovah kept them concealed.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter36_verse27"></a><b><sup>27 </sup></b>And the word of Jehovah occurred further to Jeremiah after the king had burned up the roll with the words that Bar′uch <a id="page1019"></a>had written at the mouth of Jeremiah, saying: <a id="chapter36_verse28"></a><b><sup>28 </sup></b>“Take again for yourself a roll, another one, and write on it all the first words that proved to be on the first roll, which Je·hoi′a·kim the king of Judah burned up. <a id="chapter36_verse29"></a><b><sup>29 </sup></b>And against Je·hoi′a·kim the king of Judah you should say, ‘This is what Jehovah has said: “You yourself have burned up this roll, saying, ‘Why is it that you have written on it, saying: “The king of Babylon will come without fail and will certainly bring this land to ruin and cause man and beast to cease from it”?’ <a id="chapter36_verse30"></a><b><sup>30 </sup></b>Therefore this is what Jehovah has said against Je·hoi′a·kim the king of Judah, ‘He will come to have no one sitting upon the throne of David, and his own dead body will become something thrown out to the heat by day and to the frost by night. <a id="chapter36_verse31"></a><b><sup>31 </sup></b>And I will call to account against him and against his offspring and against his servants their error, and I will bring upon them and upon the inhabitants of Jerusalem and upon the men of Judah all the calamity that I have spoken against them, and they did not listen.’”’”</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter36_verse32"></a><b><sup>32 </sup></b>And Jeremiah himself took another roll and then gave it to Bar′uch the son of Ne·ri′ah, the secretary, who proceeded to write upon it at the mouth of Jeremiah all the words of the book that Je·hoi′a·kim the king of Judah had burned in the fire; and there were added to them many more words like those.</p>
</body>
</html>
