<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="application/xhtml+xml; charset=utf-8" />
<title>Jeremiah 48</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/bi12.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
<p class="w_biblebookname">Jeremiah</p><p class="sb"><a id="chapter48"></a><a id="chapter48_verse1"></a><span class="w_ch"><b>48 </b></span>For Mo′ab this is what Jehovah of armies, the God of Israel, has said: “Woe to Ne′bo, for she has been despoiled! Kir·i·a·tha′im has been put to shame, has been captured. The secure height has been put to shame and been put in terror. <a id="chapter48_verse2"></a><b><sup>2 </sup></b>No more is there any praise of Mo′ab. In Hesh′bon they have thought out against her a calamity: ‘Come, men, and let us cut her off from being a nation.’</p>
<p class="sb">“You, too, O Mad′men, should keep silent. After you there walks a sword. <a id="chapter48_verse3"></a><b><sup>3 </sup></b>There is the sound of an outcry from Hor·o·na′im, a despoiling and great breaking down. <a id="chapter48_verse4"></a><b><sup>4 </sup></b>Mo′ab has been broken down. Her little ones have caused a cry to be heard. <a id="chapter48_verse5"></a><b><sup>5 </sup></b>For on the way up to Lu′hith it is with weeping that one goes up—there is a weeping. For on the way down from Hor·o·na′im there is a distressing outcry over the breakdown that people have heard.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter48_verse6"></a><b><sup>6 </sup></b>“Take to flight; provide escape for <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>souls, and <span class="smcap">YOU </span><a id="page1033"></a>should become like a juniper tree in the wilderness. <a id="chapter48_verse7"></a><b><sup>7 </sup></b>Because your trust is in your works and in your treasures, you yourself will also be captured. And Che′mosh will certainly go forth into exile, his priests and his princes at the same time. <a id="chapter48_verse8"></a><b><sup>8 </sup></b>And the despoiler will come in on every city, and there will be no city that can make its escape. And the low plain will certainly perish and the level land be annihilated, a thing that Jehovah has said.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter48_verse9"></a><b><sup>9 </sup></b>“Give a road mark to Mo′ab, <span class="smcap">YOU </span>people, for at the falling in ruins she will go forth; and her very cities will become a mere object of astonishment, with no one dwelling in them.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter48_verse10"></a><b><sup>10 </sup></b>“Cursed be the one that is carrying out the mission of Jehovah neglectfully; and cursed be the one that is holding back his sword from blood!</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter48_verse11"></a><b><sup>11 </sup></b>“The Mo′ab·ites have been at ease since their youth, and they are keeping undisturbed on their dregs. And they have not been emptied from one vessel into another vessel, and into exile they have not gone. That is why their taste has stood still within them, and their very scent has not been changed.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter48_verse12"></a><b><sup>12 </sup></b>“‘Therefore, look! there are days coming,’ is the utterance of Jehovah, ‘and I will send to them vessel tilters, and they will certainly tilt them; and their vessels they will empty out, and their large jars they will dash to pieces. <a id="chapter48_verse13"></a><b><sup>13 </sup></b>And the Mo′ab·ites will have to be ashamed of Che′mosh, just as those of the house of Israel have become ashamed of Beth′el their confidence. <a id="chapter48_verse14"></a><b><sup>14 </sup></b>How dare <span class="smcap">YOU </span>people say: “We are mighty men and men of vital energy for the war”?’</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter48_verse15"></a><b><sup>15 </sup></b>“‘Mo′ab has been despoiled, and one has gone up against her own cities. And their choicest young men themselves have gone down to the slaughtering,’ is the utterance of the King, whose name is Jehovah of armies.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter48_verse16"></a><b><sup>16 </sup></b>“The disaster on the Mo′ab·ites is near to come, and their very calamity is actually hurrying up very much. <a id="chapter48_verse17"></a><b><sup>17 </sup></b>All those round about them will have to sympathize with them, even all those knowing their name. Say, <span class="smcap">YOU </span>people, ‘O how the rod of strength has been broken, the staff of beauty!’</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter48_verse18"></a><b><sup>18 </sup></b>“Get down from glory, and sit down in thirst, O inhabitress of the daughter of Di′bon; for the despoiler of Mo′ab has come up against you. He will actually bring your fortified places to ruin.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter48_verse19"></a><b><sup>19 </sup></b>“Stand still and look out for the way itself, O inhabitress of A·ro′er. Ask him that is fleeing and her that is making her escape. Say, ‘What has been brought about?’ <a id="chapter48_verse20"></a><b><sup>20 </sup></b>Mo′ab has been put to shame, for she has been struck with terror. Howl and cry out. Tell in Ar′non, O men, that Mo′ab has been despoiled. <a id="chapter48_verse21"></a><b><sup>21 </sup></b>And judgment itself has come to the land of level country, to Ho′lon and to Ja′haz and against Meph′a·ath, <a id="chapter48_verse22"></a><b><sup>22 </sup></b>and against Di′bon and against Ne′bo and against Beth-dib·la·tha′im, <a id="chapter48_verse23"></a><b><sup>23 </sup></b>and against Kir·i·a·tha′im and against Beth-ga′mul and against Beth-me′on <a id="chapter48_verse24"></a><b><sup>24 </sup></b>and against Ke′ri·oth and against Boz′rah and against all the cities of the land of Mo′ab, those far away and those near.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter48_verse25"></a><b><sup>25 </sup></b>“‘The horn of Mo′ab has been cut down, and his own arm has been broken,’ is the utterance of Jehovah. <a id="chapter48_verse26"></a><b><sup>26 </sup></b>‘Make him drunk, O men, for he has put on great airs against Jehovah himself; and Mo′ab has slapped <a id="page1034"></a>around in his vomit, and he has become an object of ridicule, even he himself.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter48_verse27"></a><b><sup>27 </sup></b>“‘And did not Israel become a mere object of ridicule to you? Or was he found among outright thieves? For you would shake yourself just as often as you spoke against him.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter48_verse28"></a><b><sup>28 </sup></b>“‘Leave the cities and reside on the crag, <span class="smcap">YOU </span>inhabitants of Mo′ab, and become like the dove that makes its nest in the regions of the mouth of the hollow.’”</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter48_verse29"></a><b><sup>29 </sup></b>“We have heard of the pride of Mo′ab—he is very haughty—of his highness and of his pride and of his haughtiness and of the loftiness of his heart.”</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter48_verse30"></a><b><sup>30 </sup></b>“‘I myself have known his fury,’ is the utterance of Jehovah, ‘and that is not the way it will be; his empty talk—they will not actually do in just that way. <a id="chapter48_verse31"></a><b><sup>31 </sup></b>That is why it is over Mo′ab that I shall howl, and for Mo′ab in his entirety I shall cry out. For the men of Kir-he′res one shall moan.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter48_verse32"></a><b><sup>32 </sup></b>“‘With more than the weeping for Ja′zer I shall weep for you, O vine of Sib′mah. Your own flourishing shoots have crossed over the sea. To the sea—to Ja′zer—they have reached. Upon your summer fruitage and upon your grape gathering the despoiler himself has fallen. <a id="chapter48_verse33"></a><b><sup>33 </sup></b>And rejoicing and joyfulness have been taken away from the orchard and from the land of Mo′ab. And from the winepresses I have caused the wine itself to cease. No one will be doing the treading with shouting. The shouting will be no shouting.’”</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter48_verse34"></a><b><sup>34 </sup></b>“‘From the cry in Hesh′bon clear to E·le·a′leh, clear to Ja′haz they have given forth their voice, from Zo′ar clear to Hor·o·na′im, to Eg′lath-she·li′shi·yah; for even the waters of Nim′rim themselves will become mere desolations. <a id="chapter48_verse35"></a><b><sup>35 </sup></b>And I will cause to cease from Mo′ab,’ is the utterance of Jehovah, ‘the one bringing up an offering upon the high place and the one making sacrificial smoke to his god. <a id="chapter48_verse36"></a><b><sup>36 </sup></b>That is why my own heart will be boisterous for Mo′ab himself, just like flutes; and for the men of Kir-he′res my very heart will be boisterous, just like flutes. That is why the very abundance that he has produced will certainly perish. <a id="chapter48_verse37"></a><b><sup>37 </sup></b>For upon every head there is baldness, and every beard is clipped. Upon all hands there are cuts, and upon the hips there is sackcloth!’”</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter48_verse38"></a><b><sup>38 </sup></b>“‘On all the roofs of Mo′ab and in her public squares—all of it—there is wailing; for I have broken Mo′ab just like a vessel in which there is no delight,’ is the utterance of Jehovah. <a id="chapter48_verse39"></a><b><sup>39 </sup></b>‘O how she has become terrified! Howl, <span class="smcap">YOU </span>people! O how Mo′ab has turned the back! He has become ashamed. And Mo′ab has become an object of ridicule and something terrifying to all those round about him.’”</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter48_verse40"></a><b><sup>40 </sup></b>“For this is what Jehovah has said, ‘Look! Just like an eagle that pounces, someone must also spread his wings over Mo′ab. <a id="chapter48_verse41"></a><b><sup>41 </sup></b>The towns will actually be captured, and her own strong places will certainly be seized. And the heart of the mighty men of Mo′ab must become in that day like the heart of a wife having childbirth distress.’”</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter48_verse42"></a><b><sup>42 </sup></b>“‘And Mo′ab will certainly be annihilated from being a people, for it is against Jehovah that he has put on great airs. <a id="chapter48_verse43"></a><b><sup>43 </sup></b>Dread and the hollow and the trap are upon you, O inhabitant of Mo′ab,’ is the utterance of Jehovah. <a id="chapter48_verse44"></a><b><sup>44 </sup></b>‘Anyone fleeing because <a id="page1035"></a>of the dread will fall into the hollow; and anyone coming up out of the hollow will be caught in the trap.’</p>
<p class="sb">“‘For I shall bring upon her, upon Mo′ab, the year of their being given attention,’ is the utterance of Jehovah. <a id="chapter48_verse45"></a><b><sup>45 </sup></b>‘In the shadow of Hesh′bon those fleeing have stood still without power. For a very fire will certainly go forth out of Hesh′bon, and a flame from the midst of Si′hon; and it will devour the temples of Mo′ab and the crown of the head of the sons of uproar.’</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter48_verse46"></a><b><sup>46 </sup></b>“‘Woe to you, O Mo′ab! The people of Che′mosh have perished. For your sons have been taken as captives and your daughters as captives. <a id="chapter48_verse47"></a><b><sup>47 </sup></b>And I will gather the captive ones of Mo′ab in the final part of the days,’ is the utterance of Jehovah. ‘Down to this point is the judgment upon Mo′ab.’”</p>
</body>
</html>
