<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="application/xhtml+xml; charset=utf-8" />
<title>Lamentations 3</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/bi12.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
<p class="w_biblebookname">Lamentations</p><p class="ss"><span class="smcap">א </span>[<i>ʼA′leph</i>]</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter3"></a><a id="chapter3_verse1"></a><span class="w_ch"><b>3 </b></span>I am the able-bodied man that has seen affliction because of the staff of his fury.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter3_verse2"></a> <b><sup>2 </sup></b>It is I whom he has led and makes to walk in darkness and not in light.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter3_verse3"></a> <b><sup>3 </sup></b>Indeed, it is against me that he repeatedly turns his hand all day long.</p>
<p class="ss"><span class="smcap">ב </span>[<i>Behth</i>]</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter3_verse4"></a> <b><sup>4 </sup></b>He has caused my flesh and my skin to wear away. He has broken my bones.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter3_verse5"></a> <b><sup>5 </sup></b>He has built against me, that he may encircle me with poisonous plant and hardship.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter3_verse6"></a> <b><sup>6 </sup></b>In dark places he has made me sit like men dead for a long time.</p>
<p class="ss"><span class="smcap">ג </span>[<i>Gi′mel</i>]</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter3_verse7"></a> <b><sup>7 </sup></b>He has blocked me up as with a stone wall, that I may not go forth. He has made my copper fetters heavy.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter3_verse8"></a> <b><sup>8 </sup></b>Also, when I call for aid and cry for help, he actually hampers my prayer.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter3_verse9"></a> <b><sup>9 </sup></b>He has blocked up my ways with hewn stone. My roadways he has twisted.</p>
<p class="ss"><span class="smcap">ד </span>[<i>Da′leth</i>]</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter3_verse10"></a><b><sup>10 </sup></b>As a bear lying in wait he is to me, as a lion in places of concealment.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter3_verse11"></a><b><sup>11 </sup></b>My ways he has disarranged, and he makes me lie fallow. He has made me one laid desolate.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter3_verse12"></a><b><sup>12 </sup></b>He has trodden his bow, and he sets me up as the target for the arrow.</p>
<p class="ss"><span class="smcap">ה </span>[<i>He</i>ʼ]</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter3_verse13"></a><b><sup>13 </sup></b>He has brought into my kidneys the sons of his quiver.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter3_verse14"></a><b><sup>14 </sup></b>I have become an object of laughter to all people against me, the theme of their song all day long.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter3_verse15"></a><b><sup>15 </sup></b>He has given me a sufficiency of bitter things. He has saturated me with wormwood.</p>
<p class="ss"><span class="smcap">ו </span>[<i>Waw</i>]</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter3_verse16"></a><b><sup>16 </sup></b>And with gravel he makes my teeth get broken. He has made me cower in the ashes.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter3_verse17"></a><b><sup>17 </sup></b>You also do a casting off so that there is no peace for my soul. I have lost memory of what good is.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter3_verse18"></a><b><sup>18 </sup></b>And I keep saying: “My excellency has perished, and my expectation from Jehovah.”</p>
<p class="ss"><span class="smcap">ז </span>[<i>Za′yin</i>]</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter3_verse19"></a><b><sup>19 </sup></b>Remember my affliction and my homeless state, the wormwood and the poisonous plant.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="page1052"></a><a id="chapter3_verse20"></a><b><sup>20 </sup></b>Without fail your soul will remember and bow low over me.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter3_verse21"></a><b><sup>21 </sup></b>This is what I shall bring back to my heart. That is why I shall show a waiting attitude.</p>
<p class="ss"><span class="smcap">ח </span>[<i>Chehth</i>]</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter3_verse22"></a><b><sup>22 </sup></b>It is the acts of loving-kindness of Jehovah that we have not come to our finish, because his mercies will certainly not come to an end.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter3_verse23"></a><b><sup>23 </sup></b>They are new each morning. Your faithfulness is abundant.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter3_verse24"></a><b><sup>24 </sup></b>“Jehovah is my share,” my soul has said, “that is why I shall show a waiting attitude for him.”</p>
<p class="ss"><span class="smcap">ט </span>[<i>Tehth</i>]</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter3_verse25"></a><b><sup>25 </sup></b>Good is Jehovah to the one hoping in him, to the soul that keeps seeking for him.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter3_verse26"></a><b><sup>26 </sup></b>Good it is that one should wait, even silently, for the salvation of Jehovah.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter3_verse27"></a><b><sup>27 </sup></b>Good it is for an able-bodied man that he should carry the yoke during his youth.</p>
<p class="ss"><span class="smcap">י </span>[<i>Yohdh</i>]</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter3_verse28"></a><b><sup>28 </sup></b>Let him sit solitary and keep silent, because he has laid something upon him.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter3_verse29"></a><b><sup>29 </sup></b>Let him put his mouth in the very dust. Perhaps there exists a hope.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter3_verse30"></a><b><sup>30 </sup></b>Let him give his cheek to the very one striking him. Let him have his sufficiency of reproach.</p>
<p class="ss"><span class="smcap">כ </span>[<i>Kaph</i>]</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter3_verse31"></a><b><sup>31 </sup></b>For not to time indefinite will Jehovah keep on casting off.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter3_verse32"></a><b><sup>32 </sup></b>For although he has caused grief, he will also certainly show mercy according to the abundance of his loving-kindness.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter3_verse33"></a><b><sup>33 </sup></b>For not out of his own heart has he afflicted or does he grieve the sons of men.</p>
<p class="ss"><span class="smcap">ל </span>[<i>La′medh</i>]</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter3_verse34"></a><b><sup>34 </sup></b>For crushing beneath one’s feet all the prisoners of the earth,</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter3_verse35"></a><b><sup>35 </sup></b>For turning aside the judgment of an able-bodied man before the face of the Most High,</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter3_verse36"></a><b><sup>36 </sup></b>For making a man crooked in his legal case, Jehovah himself has had no countenance.</p>
<p class="ss"><span class="smcap">מ </span>[<i>Mem</i>]</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter3_verse37"></a><b><sup>37 </sup></b>Who, now, has said that something should occur when Jehovah himself has not commanded?</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter3_verse38"></a><b><sup>38 </sup></b>From the mouth of the Most High bad things and what is good do not go forth.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter3_verse39"></a><b><sup>39 </sup></b>How can a living man indulge in complaints, an able-bodied man on account of his sin?</p>
<p class="ss"><span class="smcap">נ </span>[<i>Nun</i>]</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter3_verse40"></a><b><sup>40 </sup></b>Do let us search out our ways and explore them, and do let us return clear to Jehovah.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter3_verse41"></a><b><sup>41 </sup></b>Let us raise our heart along with our palms to God in the heavens:</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter3_verse42"></a><b><sup>42 </sup></b>“We ourselves have transgressed, and we have behaved rebelliously. You yourself have not forgiven.</p>
<p class="ss"><span class="smcap">ס </span>[<i>Sa′mekh</i>]</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter3_verse43"></a><b><sup>43 </sup></b>You have blocked approach with anger, and you keep pursuing us. You <a id="page1053"></a>have killed; you have shown no compassion.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter3_verse44"></a><b><sup>44 </sup></b>You have blocked approach to yourself with a cloud mass, that prayer may not pass through.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter3_verse45"></a><b><sup>45 </sup></b>You make us mere offscouring and refuse in the midst of the peoples.”</p>
<p class="ss"><span class="smcap">פ </span>[<i>Peʼ</i>]</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter3_verse46"></a><b><sup>46 </sup></b>Against us all our enemies have opened their mouth.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter3_verse47"></a><b><sup>47 </sup></b>Dread and the hollow themselves have become ours, desolateness and breakdown.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter3_verse48"></a><b><sup>48 </sup></b>With streams of water my eye keeps running down on account of the breakdown of the daughter of my people.</p>
<p class="ss"><span class="smcap">ע </span>[<i>ʽA′yin</i>]</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter3_verse49"></a><b><sup>49 </sup></b>My very eye has been poured forth and will not keep still, so that there are no pauses,</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter3_verse50"></a><b><sup>50 </sup></b>Until Jehovah looks down and sees from heaven.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter3_verse51"></a><b><sup>51 </sup></b>My own eye has dealt severely with my soul, because of all the daughters of my city.</p>
<p class="ss"><span class="smcap">צ </span>[<i>Tsa·dheh′</i>]</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter3_verse52"></a><b><sup>52 </sup></b>My enemies have positively hunted for me just as for a bird, for no cause.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter3_verse53"></a><b><sup>53 </sup></b>They have silenced my life in the pit itself, and they kept hurling stones at me.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter3_verse54"></a><b><sup>54 </sup></b>Waters have flowed over my head. I have said: “I shall certainly be cut off!”</p>
<p class="ss"><span class="smcap">ק </span>[<i>Qohph</i>]</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter3_verse55"></a><b><sup>55 </sup></b>I have called out your name, O Jehovah, from a pit of the lowest sort.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter3_verse56"></a><b><sup>56 </sup></b>My voice you must hear. Do not hide your ear to my relief, to my cry for help.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter3_verse57"></a><b><sup>57 </sup></b>You have drawn near in the day that I kept calling you. You said: “Do not be afraid.”</p>
<p class="ss"><span class="smcap">ר </span>[<i>Rehsh</i>]</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter3_verse58"></a><b><sup>58 </sup></b>You have taken up, O Jehovah, the contests of my soul. You have repurchased my life.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter3_verse59"></a><b><sup>59 </sup></b>You have seen, O Jehovah, the wrong done to me. O do conduct the judgment for me.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter3_verse60"></a><b><sup>60 </sup></b>You have seen all their vengeance, all their thoughts against me.</p>
<p class="ss"><span class="smcap">ש </span>[<i>Sin</i>] or [<i>Shin</i>]</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter3_verse61"></a><b><sup>61 </sup></b>You have heard their reproach, O Jehovah, all their thoughts against me,</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter3_verse62"></a><b><sup>62 </sup></b>The lips of those rising up against me and their whispering against me all day long.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter3_verse63"></a><b><sup>63 </sup></b>Do look at their very sitting down and their rising up. I am the subject of their song.</p>
<p class="ss"><span class="smcap">ת </span>[<i>Taw</i>]</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter3_verse64"></a><b><sup>64 </sup></b>You will give back to them a treatment, O Jehovah, according to the work of their hands.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter3_verse65"></a><b><sup>65 </sup></b>You will give to them the insolence of heart, your curse to them.</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter3_verse66"></a><b><sup>66 </sup></b>You will pursue in anger and annihilate them from under the heavens of Jehovah.</p>
</body>
</html>
