<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="application/xhtml+xml; charset=utf-8" />
<title>Ezekiel 47</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/bi12.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
<p class="w_biblebookname">Ezekiel</p><p class="sb"><a id="chapter47"></a><a id="chapter47_verse1"></a><span class="w_ch"><b>47 </b></span>And gradually he brought me back to the entrance of the House, and, look! there was water going forth from under the threshold of the House eastward, for the front of the House was east. And the water was going down from under, from the right-hand side of the House, south of the altar.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter47_verse2"></a><b><sup>2 </sup></b>And he gradually brought me forth by the way of the north gate and took me around by the way outside to the outer gate that is facing toward the east, and, look! water was trickling from the right-hand side.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter47_verse3"></a><b><sup>3 </sup></b>When the man went forth eastward with a measuring line in his hand, he also proceeded to measure a thousand in cubits and to make me pass through the water, water up to the ankles.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter47_verse4"></a><b><sup>4 </sup></b>And he continued measuring a thousand and then made me pass through the water, water up to the knees.</p>
<p class="sb">And he continued measuring a thousand and now made me pass through—water up to the hips.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter47_verse5"></a><b><sup>5 </sup></b>And he continued measuring a thousand. It was a torrent that I was not able to pass through, for the water had got high, water permitting swimming, a torrent that could not be passed through.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter47_verse6"></a><b><sup>6 </sup></b>At that he said to me: “Have you seen this, O son of man?”</p>
<p class="sb">Then he had me walk and had me return to the bank of <a id="page1128"></a>the torrent. <a id="chapter47_verse7"></a><b><sup>7 </sup></b>When I returned, why, look! on the bank of the torrent there were very many trees, on this side and on that side. <a id="chapter47_verse8"></a><b><sup>8 </sup></b>And he went on to say to me: “This water is going forth to the eastern region and must go down through the Ar′a·bah. And it must come to the sea. It being brought forth into the sea itself, its water is also actually healed. <a id="chapter47_verse9"></a><b><sup>9 </sup></b>And it must occur that every living soul that swarms, in every place to which the double-size torrent comes, will get life. And it must occur that there will be very many fish, because there is where this water will certainly come, and the seawater will be healed, and everything will be alive where the torrent comes.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter47_verse10"></a><b><sup>10 </sup></b>“And it must occur that fishers will actually stand alongside it from En-ge′di even up to En-eg′la·im. There will come to be a drying yard for dragnets. In their kinds their fish will prove to be, like the fish of the Great Sea, very many.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter47_verse11"></a><b><sup>11 </sup></b>“There are its swampy places and its marshy places, and they will not be healed. To salt they will certainly be given.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter47_verse12"></a><b><sup>12 </sup></b>“And alongside the torrent there will come up, along its bank on this side and on that side, all sorts of trees for food. Their leafage will not wither, nor will their fruitage be consumed. In their months they will bear new fruit, because the water for them—it is coming forth from the very sanctuary. And their fruitage must prove to be for food and their leafage for healing.”</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter47_verse13"></a><b><sup>13 </sup></b>This is what the Sovereign Lord Jehovah has said: “This is the territory that <span class="smcap">YOU </span>will assign to yourselves for inheritance as the land for the twelve tribes of Israel, with two pieces of field to Joseph. <a id="chapter47_verse14"></a><b><sup>14 </sup></b>And <span class="smcap">YOU </span>people must inherit it, each one the same as his brother, which land I raised my hand in an oath to give to <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>forefathers; and this land must fall to <span class="smcap">YOU </span>by lot for inheritance.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter47_verse15"></a><b><sup>15 </sup></b>“And this is the boundary of the land to the northern side, from the Great Sea by the way to Heth′lon, as one comes to Ze′dad, <a id="chapter47_verse16"></a><b><sup>16 </sup></b>Ha′math, Be·ro′thah, Sib′ra·im, which is between the boundary of Damascus and the boundary of Ha′math; Ha′zer-hat′ti·con, which is toward the boundary of Ha·u·ran′. <a id="chapter47_verse17"></a><b><sup>17 </sup></b>And the boundary from the sea must prove to be Ha′zar-e′non, the boundary of Damascus and north—northward, and the boundary of Ha′math. This is the northern side.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter47_verse18"></a><b><sup>18 </sup></b>“And the eastern side is from between Ha·u·ran′ and Damascus and between Gil′e·ad and the land of Israel; the Jordan, from the boundary to the eastern sea <span class="smcap">YOU </span>people should measure. This is the eastern side.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter47_verse19"></a><b><sup>19 </sup></b>“And the southern side is to the south, from Ta′mar to the waters of Mer′i·bath-ka′desh, the torrent valley to the Great Sea. This is the side to the south, toward the Neg′eb.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter47_verse20"></a><b><sup>20 </sup></b>“And the western side is the Great Sea, from the boundary straight ahead to the entering in to Ha′math. This is the western side.”</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter47_verse21"></a><b><sup>21 </sup></b>“And <span class="smcap">YOU </span>must apportion this land to yourselves, to the twelve tribes of Israel. <a id="chapter47_verse22"></a><b><sup>22 </sup></b>And it must occur that <span class="smcap">YOU </span>should allot it for inheritance to yourselves and to the alien residents who are residing as aliens in <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>midst, who have become father to sons in the midst of <span class="smcap">YOU</span>. And they must become to <span class="smcap">YOU </span>like a native among the sons of Israel. With <span class="smcap">YOU </span>people they will fall by lot into an inheritance in the midst of the tribes of Israel. <a id="chapter47_verse23"></a><b><sup>23 </sup></b>And it must occur that <a id="page1129"></a>in the tribe with which the alien resident has taken up residence as an alien, there is where <span class="smcap">YOU </span>should give his inheritance,” is the utterance of the Sovereign Lord Jehovah.</p>
</body>
</html>
