<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="application/xhtml+xml; charset=utf-8" />
<title>Ezekiel 20</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/bi12.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
<p class="w_biblebookname">Ezekiel</p><p class="sb"><a id="chapter20"></a><a id="chapter20_verse1"></a><span class="w_ch"><b>20 </b></span>Now it came about in the seventh year, in the fifth month, on the tenth day of the month, that men from the elderly ones of Israel came in to inquire of Jehovah, and they proceeded to sit down before me. <a id="chapter20_verse2"></a><b><sup>2 </sup></b>Then the word of Jehovah occurred to me, saying: <a id="chapter20_verse3"></a><b><sup>3 </sup></b>“Son of man, speak with the elderly men of Israel, and you must say to them, ‘This is what the Sovereign Lord Jehovah has said: “Is it in order to inquire of me that <span class="smcap">YOU </span>men are coming? ‘As I am alive, I will not be inquired of by <span class="smcap">YOU</span>,’ <a id="page1082"></a>is the utterance of the Sovereign Lord Jehovah.”’</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter20_verse4"></a><b><sup>4 </sup></b>“Will you judge them? Will you judge them, O son of man? Cause them to know the detestable things of their forefathers. <a id="chapter20_verse5"></a><b><sup>5 </sup></b>And you must say to them, ‘This is what the Sovereign Lord Jehovah has said: “In the day of my choosing Israel, I also proceeded to lift up my hand in an oath to the seed of the house of Jacob and to make myself known to them in the land of Egypt. Yes, I proceeded to lift up my hand in an oath to them, saying, ‘I am Jehovah <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>God.’ <a id="chapter20_verse6"></a><b><sup>6 </sup></b>In that day I lifted up my hand in an oath to them to bring them forth from the land of Egypt to a land that I had spied out for them, one flowing with milk and honey. It was the decoration of all the lands. <a id="chapter20_verse7"></a><b><sup>7 </sup></b>And I went on to say to them, ‘Throw away, each one of <span class="smcap">YOU</span>, the disgusting things of his eyes, and with the dungy idols of Egypt do not defile yourselves. I am Jehovah <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>God.’</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter20_verse8"></a><b><sup>8 </sup></b>“‘“And they began to rebel against me, and they did not consent to listen to me. The disgusting things of their eyes they did not individually throw away, and the dungy idols of Egypt they did not leave, so that I promised to pour out my rage upon them, in order to bring my anger to its finish upon them in the midst of the land of Egypt. <a id="chapter20_verse9"></a><b><sup>9 </sup></b>And I went acting for the sake of my own name that it might not be profaned before the eyes of the nations in among whom they were, because I had made myself known to them before their eyes on bringing them forth from the land of Egypt. <a id="chapter20_verse10"></a><b><sup>10 </sup></b>So I brought them forth from the land of Egypt and brought them into the wilderness.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter20_verse11"></a><b><sup>11 </sup></b>“‘“And I proceeded to give them my statutes; and my judicial decisions I made known to them, in order that the man who keeps doing them might also keep living by them. <a id="chapter20_verse12"></a><b><sup>12 </sup></b>And my sabbaths I also gave to them, to become a sign between me and them, in order for them to know that I am Jehovah who is sanctifying them.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter20_verse13"></a><b><sup>13 </sup></b>“‘“But they, the house of Israel, rebelled against me in the wilderness. In my statutes they did not walk, and my judicial decisions they rejected, which, should the man keep doing, he will also keep living by them. And my sabbaths they profaned very much, so that I promised to pour out my fury upon them in the wilderness, in order to exterminate them. <a id="chapter20_verse14"></a><b><sup>14 </sup></b>But I acted for the sake of my own name that it might not be profaned before the eyes of the nations, before whose eyes I had brought them forth. <a id="chapter20_verse15"></a><b><sup>15 </sup></b>And I myself also lifted up my hand in an oath to them in the wilderness, not to bring them into the land that I had given, one flowing with milk and honey, (it is the decoration of all the lands,) <a id="chapter20_verse16"></a><b><sup>16 </sup></b>for the reason that they rejected my own judicial decisions; and as regards my statutes, they did not walk in them, and my sabbaths they profaned, because it was after their dungy idols that their heart was going.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter20_verse17"></a><b><sup>17 </sup></b>“‘“And my eye began to feel sorry for them to keep me from bringing them to ruin, and I did not make an extermination of them in the wilderness. <a id="chapter20_verse18"></a><b><sup>18 </sup></b>And I proceeded to say to their sons in the wilderness, ‘In the regulations of <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>forefathers do not <span class="smcap">YOU </span>walk, and their judgments do not <span class="smcap">YOU </span>keep, and with their dungy idols do not <a id="page1083"></a><span class="smcap">YOU </span>defile yourselves. <a id="chapter20_verse19"></a><b><sup>19 </sup></b>I am Jehovah <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>God. Walk in my own statutes, and keep my own judicial decisions and do them. <a id="chapter20_verse20"></a><b><sup>20 </sup></b>And sanctify my own sabbaths, and they must serve as a sign between me and <span class="smcap">YOU</span>, for <span class="smcap">YOU </span>to know that I am Jehovah <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>God.’</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter20_verse21"></a><b><sup>21 </sup></b>“‘“And the sons began to rebel against me. In my statutes they did not walk, and my judicial decisions they did not keep by doing them, which, should the man keep doing, he will also keep living by them. My sabbaths they profaned. So I promised to pour out my rage upon them, in order to bring my anger to its finish upon them in the wilderness. <a id="chapter20_verse22"></a><b><sup>22 </sup></b>And I drew back my hand and went acting for the sake of my own name, that it should not be profaned before the eyes of the nations, before whose eyes I had brought them out. <a id="chapter20_verse23"></a><b><sup>23 </sup></b>Also, I myself lifted up my hand in an oath to them in the wilderness, to scatter them among the nations and to disperse them among the lands, <a id="chapter20_verse24"></a><b><sup>24 </sup></b>for the reason that they did not carry out my own judicial decisions and they rejected my own statutes and they profaned my own sabbaths, and it was after the dungy idols of their forefathers that their eyes proved to be. <a id="chapter20_verse25"></a><b><sup>25 </sup></b>And I myself also let them have regulations that were not good and judicial decisions by which they could not keep living. <a id="chapter20_verse26"></a><b><sup>26 </sup></b>And I would let them become defiled by their gifts when they made every child opening the womb pass through the fire, in order that I might make them desolate, in order that they might know that I am Jehovah.”’</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter20_verse27"></a><b><sup>27 </sup></b>“Therefore speak to the house of Israel, O son of man, and you must say to them, ‘This is what the Sovereign Lord Jehovah has said: “Yet in this respect, <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>forefathers spoke abusively of me, in their acting against me with unfaithfulness. <a id="chapter20_verse28"></a><b><sup>28 </sup></b>And I proceeded to bring them into the land that I had lifted up my hand in an oath to give them. When they got to see every exalted hill and every branchy tree, then they began sacrificing there their sacrifices and giving there their offensive offering, and presenting there their restful odors and pouring out there their drink offerings. <a id="chapter20_verse29"></a><b><sup>29 </sup></b>So I said to them, ‘What does the high place mean to which <span class="smcap">YOU </span>are coming, that its name should be called a High Place down to this day?’”’</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter20_verse30"></a><b><sup>30 </sup></b>“Therefore say to the house of Israel, ‘This is what the Sovereign Lord Jehovah has said: “In the way of <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>forefathers are <span class="smcap">YOU </span>people defiling yourselves, and after their disgusting things are <span class="smcap">YOU </span>going in immoral intercourse? <a id="chapter20_verse31"></a><b><sup>31 </sup></b>And in lifting up <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>gifts by making <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>sons pass through the fire, are <span class="smcap">YOU </span>defiling yourselves for all <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>dungy idols down till today? At the same time shall I myself be inquired of by <span class="smcap">YOU </span>people, O house of Israel?”’</p>
<p class="sb">“‘As I am alive,’ is the utterance of the Sovereign Lord Jehovah, ‘I will not be inquired of by <span class="smcap">YOU</span>. <a id="chapter20_verse32"></a><b><sup>32 </sup></b>And that which is coming up into <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>spirit will itself positively not happen, in that <span class="smcap">YOU </span>are saying: “Let us become like the nations, like the families of the lands, in ministering to wood and stone.”’”</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter20_verse33"></a><b><sup>33 </sup></b>“‘As I am alive,’ is the utterance of the Sovereign Lord Jehovah, ‘it will be with a strong hand and with a stretched-out arm and with outpoured rage that I will rule as king over <span class="smcap">YOU </span>people. <a id="chapter20_verse34"></a><b><sup>34 </sup></b>And I will bring <span class="smcap">YOU </span>forth from the peoples, and I will collect <span class="smcap">YOU </span>together out of <a id="page1084"></a>the lands to which <span class="smcap">YOU </span>have been scattered with a strong hand and with a stretched-out arm and with outpoured rage. <a id="chapter20_verse35"></a><b><sup>35 </sup></b>And I will bring <span class="smcap">YOU </span>into the wilderness of the peoples and put myself on judgment with <span class="smcap">YOU </span>there face to face.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter20_verse36"></a><b><sup>36 </sup></b>“‘Just as I put myself on judgment with <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>forefathers in the wilderness of the land of Egypt, so I shall put myself on judgment with <span class="smcap">YOU</span>,’ is the utterance of the Sovereign Lord Jehovah. <a id="chapter20_verse37"></a><b><sup>37 </sup></b>‘And I will make <span class="smcap">YOU </span>pass under the rod and bring <span class="smcap">YOU </span>into the bond of the covenant. <a id="chapter20_verse38"></a><b><sup>38 </sup></b>And I will clean out from <span class="smcap">YOU </span>the revolters and the transgressors against me, for out of the land of their alien residence I shall bring them forth, but onto the soil of Israel they will not come; and <span class="smcap">YOU </span>people will have to know that I am Jehovah.’</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter20_verse39"></a><b><sup>39 </sup></b>“And <span class="smcap">YOU</span>, O house of Israel, this is what the Sovereign Lord Jehovah has said, ‘Go serve each one of <span class="smcap">YOU </span>his own dungy idols. And afterward if <span class="smcap">YOU </span>are not listening to me, then my holy name <span class="smcap">YOU </span>will no more profane by <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>gifts and by <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>dungy idols.’</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter20_verse40"></a><b><sup>40 </sup></b>“‘For in my holy mountain, in the mountain of the height of Israel,’ is the utterance of the Sovereign Lord Jehovah, ‘there is where they, the whole house of Israel in its entirety, will serve me, in the land. There I shall take pleasure in them, and there I shall require <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>contributions and the firstfruits of <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>presentations in all <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>holy things. <a id="chapter20_verse41"></a><b><sup>41 </sup></b>Because of the restful odor I shall take pleasure in <span class="smcap">YOU</span>, when I bring <span class="smcap">YOU </span>forth from the peoples and I actually collect <span class="smcap">YOU </span>together from the lands to which <span class="smcap">YOU </span>have been scattered, and I will be sanctified in <span class="smcap">YOU </span>before the eyes of the nations.’</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter20_verse42"></a><b><sup>42 </sup></b>“‘And <span class="smcap">YOU </span>people will have to know that I am Jehovah, when I bring <span class="smcap">YOU </span>onto the soil of Israel, into the land that I lifted up my hand in an oath to give to <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>forefathers. <a id="chapter20_verse43"></a><b><sup>43 </sup></b>And <span class="smcap">YOU </span>will certainly remember there <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>ways and all <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>dealings by which <span class="smcap">YOU </span>defiled yourselves, and <span class="smcap">YOU </span>will actually feel a loathing at <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>own faces because of all <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>bad things that <span class="smcap">YOU </span>did. <a id="chapter20_verse44"></a><b><sup>44 </sup></b>And <span class="smcap">YOU </span>will have to know that I am Jehovah when I take action with <span class="smcap">YOU </span>for the sake of my name, not according to <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>bad ways or according to <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>corrupted dealings, O house of Israel,’ is the utterance of the Sovereign Lord Jehovah.”</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter20_verse45"></a><b><sup>45 </sup></b>And the word of Jehovah continued to occur to me, saying: <a id="chapter20_verse46"></a><b><sup>46 </sup></b>“Son of man, set your face in the direction of the southern quarter and drip words to the south, and prophesy to the forest of the field of the south. <a id="chapter20_verse47"></a><b><sup>47 </sup></b>And you must say to the forest of the south, ‘Hear the word of Jehovah. This is what the Sovereign Lord Jehovah has said: “Here I am setting a fire ablaze against you, and it must devour in you every still-moist tree and every dry tree. The kindling flame will not be extinguished, and by it all faces must be scorched from the south to the north. <a id="chapter20_verse48"></a><b><sup>48 </sup></b>And all those of flesh must see that I myself, Jehovah, have set it afire, so that it will not be extinguished.”’”</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter20_verse49"></a><b><sup>49 </sup></b>And I proceeded to say: “Alas, O Sovereign Lord Jehovah! They are saying respecting me, ‘Is he not composing proverbial sayings?’”</p>
</body>
</html>
