<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="application/xhtml+xml; charset=utf-8" />
<title>Ezekiel 25</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/bi12.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
<p class="w_biblebookname">Ezekiel</p><p class="sb"><a id="chapter25"></a><a id="chapter25_verse1"></a><span class="w_ch"><b>25 </b></span>And the word of Jehovah continued to occur to me, saying: <a id="chapter25_verse2"></a><b><sup>2 </sup></b>“Son of man, set your face toward the sons of Am′mon and prophesy against them. <a id="chapter25_verse3"></a><b><sup>3 </sup></b>And you must say concerning the sons of Am′mon, ‘Hear the word of the Sovereign Lord Jehovah. This is what the Sovereign Lord Jehovah has said: “For the reason that you have said Aha! against my sanctuary, because it has been profaned, and against the soil of Israel, because it has been laid desolate, and against the house of Judah, because they have gone into exile, <a id="chapter25_verse4"></a><b><sup>4 </sup></b>therefore here I am giving you to the Orientals as something to possess, and they will set up their walled camps in you and will certainly put in you their tabernacles. They themselves will eat your fruitage, and they themselves will drink your milk. <a id="chapter25_verse5"></a><b><sup>5 </sup></b>And I will make Rab′bah a pasture ground of camels and the sons of Am′mon a resting-place of a flock; and <span class="smcap">YOU </span>people will have to know that I am Jehovah.”’”</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter25_verse6"></a><b><sup>6 </sup></b>“For this is what the Sovereign Lord Jehovah has said, ‘For the reason that you clapped the hands and you stamped with the feet and you kept rejoicing with all scorn on your part in your soul against the soil of Israel, <a id="chapter25_verse7"></a><b><sup>7 </sup></b>therefore here I am; I have stretched out my hand against you, and I will give you as something to plunder to the nations; and I will cut you off from the peoples and destroy you from the lands. I shall annihilate <a id="page1093"></a>you, and you will have to know that I am Jehovah.’</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter25_verse8"></a><b><sup>8 </sup></b>“This is what the Sovereign Lord Jehovah has said, ‘For the reason that Mo′ab and Se′ir have said: “Look! The house of Judah is like all the other nations,” <a id="chapter25_verse9"></a><b><sup>9 </sup></b>therefore here I am opening the slope of Mo′ab at the cities, at his cities to his frontier, the decoration of the land, Beth-jesh′i·moth, Ba′al-me′on, even to Kir·i·a·tha′im, <a id="chapter25_verse10"></a><b><sup>10 </sup></b>to the Orientals, alongside the sons of Am′mon; and I will make it something to possess, in order that it may not be remembered, that is, the sons of Am′mon, among the nations. <a id="chapter25_verse11"></a><b><sup>11 </sup></b>And in Mo′ab I shall execute acts of judgment; and they will have to know that I am Jehovah.’</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter25_verse12"></a><b><sup>12 </sup></b>“This is what the Sovereign Lord Jehovah has said, ‘For the reason that E′dom has acted in taking vengeance upon the house of Judah and they kept doing wrong extensively and avenged themselves on them, <a id="chapter25_verse13"></a><b><sup>13 </sup></b>therefore this is what the Sovereign Lord Jehovah has said: “I will also stretch out my hand against E′dom and cut off from it man and domestic animal, and I will make it a devastated place from Te′man, even to De′dan. By the sword they will fall. <a id="chapter25_verse14"></a><b><sup>14 </sup></b>‘And I will bring my vengeance on E′dom by the hand of my people Israel; and they must do in E′dom according to my anger and according to my rage; and they will have to know what my vengeance is,’ is the utterance of the Sovereign Lord Jehovah.”’</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter25_verse15"></a><b><sup>15 </sup></b>“This is what the Sovereign Lord Jehovah has said, ‘For the reason that the Phi·lis′tines have acted with vengeance and they kept avenging themselves with a vengeance with scorn in the soul, in order to cause ruin, with an indefinitely lasting enmity, <a id="chapter25_verse16"></a><b><sup>16 </sup></b>therefore this is what the Sovereign Lord Jehovah has said: “Here I am stretching out my hand against the Phi·lis′tines, and I will cut off the Cher′e·thites and destroy the rest of the seacoast. <a id="chapter25_verse17"></a><b><sup>17 </sup></b>And I will execute in them great acts of vengeance, with raging reproofs; and they will have to know that I am Jehovah when I bring my vengeance on them.”’”</p>
</body>
</html>
