<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="application/xhtml+xml; charset=utf-8" />
<title>Ezekiel 30</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/bi12.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
<p class="w_biblebookname">Ezekiel</p><p class="sb"><a id="chapter30"></a><a id="chapter30_verse1"></a><span class="w_ch"><b>30 </b></span>And the word of Jehovah continued to occur to me, saying: <a id="chapter30_verse2"></a><b><sup>2 </sup></b>“Son of man, prophesy, and you must say, ‘This is what the Sovereign Lord Jehovah has said: “Howl, <span class="smcap">YOU </span>people, ‘Alas for the day!’ <a id="chapter30_verse3"></a><b><sup>3 </sup></b>for a day is near, yes, a day belonging to Jehovah is near. A day of clouds, an appointed time of nations it will prove to be. <a id="chapter30_verse4"></a><b><sup>4 </sup></b>And a sword will certainly come into Egypt, and severe pains must occur in E·thi·o′pi·a when one falls slain in Egypt and they actually take its wealth and its foundations are actually torn down. <a id="chapter30_verse5"></a><b><sup>5 </sup></b>E·thi·o′pi·a and Put and Lud and all the mixed company and Chub and the sons of the land of the covenant—with them they will fall by the very sword.”’</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter30_verse6"></a><b><sup>6 </sup></b>“This is what Jehovah has said, ‘The supporters of Egypt must also fall, and the pride of its strength must come down.’</p>
<p class="sb">“‘From Mig′dol to Sy·e′ne they will fall in it even by the sword,’ is the utterance of the Sovereign Lord Jehovah. <a id="chapter30_verse7"></a><b><sup>7 </sup></b>‘They must also be made desolate in the midst of desolated lands, and its own cities will come to be right in the midst of devastated cities. <a id="chapter30_verse8"></a><b><sup>8 </sup></b>And they will have to know that I am Jehovah when I set a fire in Egypt and all its helpers are actually broken. <a id="chapter30_verse9"></a><b><sup>9 </sup></b>In that day messengers will go forth from before me in the ships, in order to drive self-confident E·thi·o′pi·a into trembling. And severe pains must occur among them in the day of Egypt, for, look! it must come.’</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter30_verse10"></a><b><sup>10 </sup></b>“This is what the Sovereign Lord Jehovah has said, ‘I will also cause the crowd of Egypt to cease by the hand of Neb·u·chad·rez′zar the king of Babylon. <a id="chapter30_verse11"></a><b><sup>11 </sup></b>He and his people with him, the tyrants of the nations, are being <a id="page1100"></a>brought in to reduce the land to ruin. And they must draw their swords against Egypt and fill the land with the slain. <a id="chapter30_verse12"></a><b><sup>12 </sup></b>And I will make the Nile canals dry ground and will sell the land into the hand of bad men, and I will cause the land and its fullness to be desolated by the hand of strangers. I myself, Jehovah, have spoken.’</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter30_verse13"></a><b><sup>13 </sup></b>“This is what the Sovereign Lord Jehovah has said, ‘I will also destroy the dungy idols and cause the valueless gods to cease out of Noph, and there will no more prove to be a chieftain out of the land of Egypt; and I shall certainly put fear in the land of Egypt. <a id="chapter30_verse14"></a><b><sup>14 </sup></b>And I will bring Path′ros to desolation and set a fire in Zo′an and execute acts of judgment in No. <a id="chapter30_verse15"></a><b><sup>15 </sup></b>And I will pour out my rage upon Sin, the fortress of Egypt, and cut off the crowd of No. <a id="chapter30_verse16"></a><b><sup>16 </sup></b>And I will set a fire in Egypt. Sin will without fail be in severe pains, and No itself will come to be for capture by breaches; and as regards Noph—there will be adversaries during the daytime! <a id="chapter30_verse17"></a><b><sup>17 </sup></b>As for the young men of On and Pi·be′seth, by the sword they will fall, and into captivity the cities themselves will go. <a id="chapter30_verse18"></a><b><sup>18 </sup></b>And in Te·haph′ne·hes the day will actually grow dark, when I break there the yoke bars of Egypt. And in her the pride of her strength will actually be made to cease. As for her, clouds themselves will cover her, and into captivity her own dependent towns will go. <a id="chapter30_verse19"></a><b><sup>19 </sup></b>And I will execute acts of judgment in Egypt; and they will have to know that I am Jehovah.’”</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter30_verse20"></a><b><sup>20 </sup></b>And it occurred further that in the eleventh year, in the first month, on the seventh day of the month, the word of Jehovah occurred to me, saying: <a id="chapter30_verse21"></a><b><sup>21 </sup></b>“Son of man, the arm of Phar′aoh the king of Egypt I shall certainly break, and, look! it will not be bound up at all in order to give it healing by putting a bandage on for binding it up, for it to become strong to take hold of the sword.”</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter30_verse22"></a><b><sup>22 </sup></b>“Therefore this is what the Sovereign Lord Jehovah has said, ‘Here I am against Phar′aoh the king of Egypt, and I will break his arms, the strong one and the broken one, and I will cause the sword to fall out of his hand. <a id="chapter30_verse23"></a><b><sup>23 </sup></b>And I will scatter the Egyptians among the nations and disperse them among the lands. <a id="chapter30_verse24"></a><b><sup>24 </sup></b>And I will strengthen the arms of the king of Babylon and give my sword into his hand, and I will break the arms of Phar′aoh, and as a deadly wounded one he will certainly do a great deal of groaning before him. <a id="chapter30_verse25"></a><b><sup>25 </sup></b>And I will strengthen the arms of the king of Babylon, and the very arms of Phar′aoh will fall; and they will have to know that I am Jehovah when I give my sword into the hand of the king of Babylon and he actually extends it out against the land of Egypt. <a id="chapter30_verse26"></a><b><sup>26 </sup></b>And I will scatter the Egyptians among the nations and disperse them among the lands; and they will have to know that I am Jehovah.’”</p>
</body>
</html>
