<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="application/xhtml+xml; charset=utf-8" />
<title>Daniel 10</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/bi12.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
<p class="w_biblebookname">Daniel</p><p class="sb"><a id="chapter10"></a><a id="chapter10_verse1"></a><span class="w_ch"><b>10 </b></span>In the third year of Cyrus the king of Persia there was a matter revealed to Daniel, whose name was called Bel·te·shaz′zar; <a id="page1149"></a>and the matter was true, and there was a great military service. And he understood the matter, and he had understanding in the thing seen.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter10_verse2"></a><b><sup>2 </sup></b>In those days I myself, Daniel, happened to be mourning for three full weeks. <a id="chapter10_verse3"></a><b><sup>3 </sup></b>Dainty bread I did not eat, and no flesh or wine entered into my mouth, and in no way did I grease myself until the completing of the three full weeks. <a id="chapter10_verse4"></a><b><sup>4 </sup></b>And on the twenty-fourth day of the first month, while I myself happened to be on the bank of the great river, that is, Hid′de·kel, <a id="chapter10_verse5"></a><b><sup>5 </sup></b>I also proceeded to raise my eyes and see, and here was a certain man clothed in linen, with his hips girded with gold of U′phaz. <a id="chapter10_verse6"></a><b><sup>6 </sup></b>And his body was like chrys′o·lite, and his face like the appearance of lightning, and his eyes like fiery torches, and his arms and the place of his feet were like the sight of burnished copper, and the sound of his words was like the sound of a crowd. <a id="chapter10_verse7"></a><b><sup>7 </sup></b>And I saw, I Daniel by myself, the appearance; but as for the men that happened to be with me, they did not see the appearance. However, there was a great trembling that fell upon them, so that they went running away in hiding themselves.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter10_verse8"></a><b><sup>8 </sup></b>And I—I was left remaining by myself, so that I saw this great appearance. And there was left remaining in me no power, and my own dignity became changed upon me to ruination, and I retained no power. <a id="chapter10_verse9"></a><b><sup>9 </sup></b>And I began hearing the sound of his words; and while I was hearing the sound of his words, I myself also happened to be fast asleep upon my face, with my face to the earth. <a id="chapter10_verse10"></a><b><sup>10 </sup></b>And, look! there was a hand that touched me, and it gradually stirred me up to get upon my knees and the palms of my hands. <a id="chapter10_verse11"></a><b><sup>11 </sup></b>And he proceeded to say to me:</p>
<p class="sb">“O Daniel, you very desirable man, have understanding in the words that I am speaking to you, and stand up where you were standing, for now I have been sent to you.”</p>
<p class="sb">And when he spoke with me this word, I did stand up, shivering.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter10_verse12"></a><b><sup>12 </sup></b>And he went on to say to me: “Do not be afraid, O Daniel, for from the first day that you gave your heart to understanding and humbling yourself before your God your words have been heard, and I myself have come because of your words. <a id="chapter10_verse13"></a><b><sup>13 </sup></b>But the prince of the royal realm of Persia was standing in opposition to me for twenty-one days, and, look! Mi′cha·el, one of the foremost princes, came to help me; and I, for my part, remained there beside the kings of Persia. <a id="chapter10_verse14"></a><b><sup>14 </sup></b>And I have come to cause you to discern what will befall your people in the final part of the days, because it is a vision yet for the days to come.”</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter10_verse15"></a><b><sup>15 </sup></b>Now when he spoke with me words like these, I had set my face to the earth and had become speechless. <a id="chapter10_verse16"></a><b><sup>16 </sup></b>And, look! one similar to the likeness of the sons of mankind was touching my lips, and I began to open my mouth and speak and say to the one who was standing in front of me: “O my lord, because of the appearance my convulsions were turned within me, and I did not retain any power. <a id="chapter10_verse17"></a><b><sup>17 </sup></b>So how was the servant of this my lord able to speak with this my lord? And as for me, up to now there kept standing in me no power, and no breath at all was left remaining in me.”</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter10_verse18"></a><b><sup>18 </sup></b>And the one like the appearance of an earthling man proceeded to touch me again and strengthen me. <a id="chapter10_verse19"></a><b><sup>19 </sup></b>Then he said: “Do not be afraid, <a id="page1150"></a>O very desirable man. May you have peace. Be strong, yes, be strong.” And as soon as he spoke with me I exerted my strength and finally said: “Let my lord speak, because you have strengthened me.” <a id="chapter10_verse20"></a><b><sup>20 </sup></b>So he went on to say:</p>
<p class="sb">“Do you really know why I have come to you? And now I shall go back to fight with the prince of Persia. When I am going forth, look! also the prince of Greece is coming. <a id="chapter10_verse21"></a><b><sup>21 </sup></b>However, I shall tell you the things noted down in the writing of truth, and there is no one holding strongly with me in these things but Mi′cha·el, the prince of <span class="smcap">YOU </span>people.</p>
</body>
</html>
