<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="application/xhtml+xml; charset=utf-8" />
<title>Daniel 12</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/bi12.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
<p class="w_biblebookname">Daniel</p><p class="sb"><a id="chapter12"></a><a id="chapter12_verse1"></a><span class="w_ch"><b>12 </b></span>“And during that time Mi′cha·el will stand up, the great prince who is standing in behalf of the sons of your people. And there will certainly occur a time of distress such as has not been made to occur since there came to be a nation until that time. And during that time your people will escape, every one who is found written down in the book. <a id="chapter12_verse2"></a><b><sup>2 </sup></b>And there will be many of those asleep in the ground of dust who will wake up, these to indefinitely lasting life and those to reproaches and to indefinitely lasting abhorrence.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter12_verse3"></a><b><sup>3 </sup></b>“And the ones having insight will shine like the brightness of the expanse; and those who are bringing the many to righteousness, like the stars to time indefinite, even forever.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter12_verse4"></a><b><sup>4 </sup></b>“And as for you, O Daniel, make secret the words and seal up the book, until the time of the end. Many will rove about, and the true knowledge will become abundant.”</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter12_verse5"></a><b><sup>5 </sup></b>And I saw, I Daniel, and, look! there were two others standing, one on the bank here of the stream and the other on the bank there of the stream. <a id="chapter12_verse6"></a><b><sup>6 </sup></b>Then one said to the man clothed with the linen, who was up above the waters of the stream: “How long will it be to the end of the wonderful things?” <a id="chapter12_verse7"></a><b><sup>7 </sup></b>And I began to hear the man clothed with the linen, who was up above the waters of the stream, as he proceeded to raise his right hand and his left hand to the heavens and to swear by the One who is alive for time indefinite: “It will be for an appointed time, appointed times and a half. And as soon as there will have been a finishing of the dashing of the power of the holy people to pieces, all these things will come to their finish.”</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter12_verse8"></a><b><sup>8 </sup></b>Now as for me, I heard, but I could not understand; so that I said: “O my lord, what will be the final part of these things?”</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter12_verse9"></a><b><sup>9 </sup></b>And he went on to say: “Go, Daniel, because the words are made secret and sealed up until the time of the end. <a id="chapter12_verse10"></a><b><sup>10 </sup></b>Many will cleanse themselves and whiten themselves and will be refined. And the wicked ones will certainly act wickedly, and no wicked ones at all will understand; but the ones having insight will understand.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter12_verse11"></a><b><sup>11 </sup></b>“And from the time that the constant feature has been removed and there has been a placing of the disgusting thing that is causing desolation, there will be one thousand two hundred and ninety days.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter12_verse12"></a><b><sup>12 </sup></b>“Happy is the one who is keeping in expectation and who arrives at the one thousand three hundred and thirty-five days!</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter12_verse13"></a><b><sup>13 </sup></b>“And as for you yourself, go toward the end; and you will rest, but you will stand up for your lot at the end of the days.”</p>
</body>
</html>
