<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="application/xhtml+xml; charset=utf-8" />
<title>Daniel 11</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/bi12.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
<p class="w_biblebookname">Daniel</p><p class="sb"><a id="chapter11"></a><a id="chapter11_verse1"></a><span class="w_ch"><b>11 </b></span>“And as for me, in the first year of Da·ri′us the Mede I stood up as a strengthener and as a fortress to him. <a id="chapter11_verse2"></a><b><sup>2 </sup></b>And now what is truth I shall tell to you:</p>
<p class="sb">“Look! There will yet be three kings standing up for Persia, and the fourth one will amass greater riches than all others. And as soon as he has become strong in his riches, he will rouse up everything against the kingdom of Greece.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter11_verse3"></a><b><sup>3 </sup></b>“And a mighty king will certainly stand up and rule with extensive dominion and do according to his will. <a id="chapter11_verse4"></a><b><sup>4 </sup></b>And when he will have stood up, his kingdom will be broken and be divided toward the four winds of the heavens, but not to his posterity and not according to his dominion with which he had ruled; because his kingdom will be uprooted, even for others than these.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter11_verse5"></a><b><sup>5 </sup></b>“And the king of the south will become strong, even one of his princes; and he will prevail against him and will certainly rule with extensive dominion greater than that one’s ruling power.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter11_verse6"></a><b><sup>6 </sup></b>“And at the end of some years they will ally themselves with each other, and the very daughter of the king of the south will come to the king of the north in order to make an equitable arrangement. But she will not retain the power of her arm; and he will not stand, neither his arm; and she will be given up, she herself, and those bringing her in, and he who caused her birth, and the one making her strong in those times. <a id="chapter11_verse7"></a><b><sup>7 </sup></b>And one from the sprout of her roots will certainly stand up in his position, and he will come to the military force and come against the fortress of the king of the north and will certainly act against them and prevail. <a id="chapter11_verse8"></a><b><sup>8 </sup></b>And also with their gods, with their molten images, with their desirable articles of silver and of gold, and with the captives he will come to Egypt. And he himself will for some years stand off from the king of the north.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter11_verse9"></a><b><sup>9 </sup></b>“And he will actually come into the kingdom of the king of the south and go back to his own soil.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter11_verse10"></a><b><sup>10 </sup></b>“Now as for his sons, they will excite themselves and actually gather together a crowd of large military forces. And in coming he will certainly come and flood over and pass through. But he will go back, and he will excite himself all the way to his fortress.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter11_verse11"></a><b><sup>11 </sup></b>“And the king of the south will embitter himself and will have to go forth and fight with him, that is, with the king of the north; and he will certainly have a large crowd stand up, and the crowd will actually be given into the hand of that one. <a id="chapter11_verse12"></a><b><sup>12 </sup></b>And the crowd will certainly be carried away. His heart will become exalted, and he will actually cause tens of thousands to fall; but he will not use his strong position.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="page1151"></a><a id="chapter11_verse13"></a><b><sup>13 </sup></b>“And the king of the north must return and set up a crowd larger than the first; and at the end of the times, some years, he will come, doing so with a great military force and with a great deal of goods. <a id="chapter11_verse14"></a><b><sup>14 </sup></b>And in those times there will be many who will stand up against the king of the south.</p>
<p class="sb">“And the sons of the robbers belonging to your people will, for their part, be carried along to try making a vision come true; and they will have to stumble.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter11_verse15"></a><b><sup>15 </sup></b>“And the king of the north will come and throw up a siege rampart and actually capture a city with fortifications. And as for the arms of the south, they will not stand, neither the people of his picked ones; and there will be no power to keep standing. <a id="chapter11_verse16"></a><b><sup>16 </sup></b>And the one coming against him will do according to his will, and there will be no one standing before him. And he will stand in the land of the Decoration, and there will be extermination in his hand. <a id="chapter11_verse17"></a><b><sup>17 </sup></b>And he will set his face to come with the forcefulness of his entire kingdom, and there will be equitable terms with him; and he will act effectively. And as regards the daughter of womankind, it will be granted to him to bring her to ruin. And she will not stand, and she will not continue to be his. <a id="chapter11_verse18"></a><b><sup>18 </sup></b>And he will turn his face back to the coastlands and will actually capture many. And a commander will have to make the reproach from him cease for himself, so that his reproach will not be. He will make it turn back upon that one. <a id="chapter11_verse19"></a><b><sup>19 </sup></b>And he will turn his face back to the fortresses of his own land, and he will certainly stumble and fall, and he will not be found.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter11_verse20"></a><b><sup>20 </sup></b>“And there must stand up in his position one who is causing an exactor to pass through the splendid kingdom, and in a few days he will be broken, but not in anger nor in warfare.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter11_verse21"></a><b><sup>21 </sup></b>“And there must stand up in his position one who is to be despised, and they will certainly not set upon him the dignity of the kingdom; and he will actually come in during a freedom from care and take hold of the kingdom by means of smoothness. <a id="chapter11_verse22"></a><b><sup>22 </sup></b>And as regards the arms of the flood, they will be flooded over on account of him, and they will be broken; as will also the Leader of the covenant. <a id="chapter11_verse23"></a><b><sup>23 </sup></b>And because of their allying themselves with him he will carry on deception and actually come up and become mighty by means of a little nation. <a id="chapter11_verse24"></a><b><sup>24 </sup></b>During freedom from care, even into the fatness of the jurisdictional district he will enter in and actually do what his fathers and the fathers of his fathers have not done. Plunder and spoil and goods he will scatter among them; and against fortified places he will scheme out his schemes, but only until a time.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter11_verse25"></a><b><sup>25 </sup></b>“And he will arouse his power and his heart against the king of the south with a great military force; and the king of the south, for his part, will excite himself for the war with an exceedingly great and mighty military force. And he will not stand, because they will scheme out against him schemes. <a id="chapter11_verse26"></a><b><sup>26 </sup></b>And the very ones eating his delicacies will bring his breakdown.</p>
<p class="sb">“And as for his military force, it will be flooded away, and many will certainly fall down slain.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter11_verse27"></a><b><sup>27 </sup></b>“And as regards these two kings, their heart will be inclined to doing what is bad, and at one table a lie is what they will keep speaking. But nothing will succeed, because the end is yet for the time appointed.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter11_verse28"></a><b><sup>28 </sup></b>“And he will go back to <a id="page1152"></a>his land with a great amount of goods, and his heart will be against the holy covenant. And he will act effectively and certainly go back to his land.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter11_verse29"></a><b><sup>29 </sup></b>“At the time appointed he will go back, and he will actually come against the south; but it will not prove to be at the last the same as at the first. <a id="chapter11_verse30"></a><b><sup>30 </sup></b>And there will certainly come against him the ships of Kit′tim, and he will have to become dejected.</p>
<p class="sb">“And he will actually go back and hurl denunciations against the holy covenant and act effectively; and he will have to go back and will give consideration to those leaving the holy covenant. <a id="chapter11_verse31"></a><b><sup>31 </sup></b>And there will be arms that will stand up, proceeding from him; and they will actually profane the sanctuary, the fortress, and remove the constant feature.</p>
<p class="sb">“And they will certainly put in place the disgusting thing that is causing desolation.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter11_verse32"></a><b><sup>32 </sup></b>“And those who are acting wickedly against the covenant, he will lead into apostasy by means of smooth words. But as regards the people who are knowing their God, they will prevail and act effectively. <a id="chapter11_verse33"></a><b><sup>33 </sup></b>And as regards those having insight among the people, they will impart understanding to the many. And they will certainly be made to stumble by sword and by flame, by captivity and by plundering, for some days. <a id="chapter11_verse34"></a><b><sup>34 </sup></b>But when they are made to stumble they will be helped with a little help; and many will certainly join themselves to them by means of smoothness. <a id="chapter11_verse35"></a><b><sup>35 </sup></b>And some of those having insight will be made to stumble, in order to do a refining work because of them and to do a cleansing and to do a whitening, until the time of the end; because it is yet for the time appointed.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter11_verse36"></a><b><sup>36 </sup></b>“And the king will actually do according to his own will, and he will exalt himself and magnify himself above every god; and against the God of gods he will speak marvelous things. And he will certainly prove successful until the denunciation will have come to a finish; because the thing decided upon must be done. <a id="chapter11_verse37"></a><b><sup>37 </sup></b>And to the God of his fathers he will give no consideration; and to the desire of women and to every other god he will give no consideration, but over everyone he will magnify himself. <a id="chapter11_verse38"></a><b><sup>38 </sup></b>But to the god of fortresses, in his position he will give glory; and to a god that his fathers did not know he will give glory by means of gold and by means of silver and by means of precious stone and by means of desirable things. <a id="chapter11_verse39"></a><b><sup>39 </sup></b>And he will act effectively against the most fortified strongholds, along with a foreign god. Whoever has given him recognition he will make abound with glory, and he will actually make them rule among many; and the ground he will apportion out for a price.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter11_verse40"></a><b><sup>40 </sup></b>“And in the time of the end the king of the south will engage with him in a pushing, and against him the king of the north will storm with chariots and with horsemen and with many ships; and he will certainly enter into the lands and flood over and pass through. <a id="chapter11_verse41"></a><b><sup>41 </sup></b>He will also actually enter into the land of the Decoration, and there will be many lands that will be made to stumble. But these are the ones that will escape out of his hand, E′dom and Mo′ab and the main part of the sons of Am′mon. <a id="chapter11_verse42"></a><b><sup>42 </sup></b>And he will keep thrusting out his hand against the lands; and as regards the land of Egypt, she will not prove to be an escapee. <a id="page1153"></a><a id="chapter11_verse43"></a><b><sup>43 </sup></b>And he will actually rule over the hidden treasures of the gold and the silver and over all the desirable things of Egypt. And the Lib′y·ans and the E·thi·o′pi·ans will be at his steps.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter11_verse44"></a><b><sup>44 </sup></b>“But there will be reports that will disturb him, out of the sunrising and out of the north, and he will certainly go forth in a great rage in order to annihilate and to devote many to destruction. <a id="chapter11_verse45"></a><b><sup>45 </sup></b>And he will plant his palatial tents between the grand sea and the holy mountain of Decoration; and he will have to come all the way to his end, and there will be no helper for him.</p>
</body>
</html>
