<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="application/xhtml+xml; charset=utf-8" />
<title>Amos 9</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/bi12.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
<p class="w_biblebookname">Amos</p><p class="sb"><a id="chapter9"></a><a id="chapter9_verse1"></a><span class="w_ch"><b>9 </b></span>I saw Jehovah stationed above the altar, and he proceeded to say: “Strike the pillar head, so that the thresholds will rock. And cut them off at the head, all of them. And the last part of them I shall kill with the sword itself. No one fleeing of them will make good his flight, and no one escaping of them will make his getaway. <a id="chapter9_verse2"></a><b><sup>2 </sup></b>If they dig down into She′ol, from there my own hand will take them; and if they go up to the heavens, from there I shall bring them down. <a id="chapter9_verse3"></a><b><sup>3 </sup></b>And if they hide themselves on the top of Car′mel, from there I shall carefully search and be certain to take them. And if they conceal themselves from in front of my eyes on the floor of the sea, down there I shall command the serpent, and it must bite them. <a id="chapter9_verse4"></a><b><sup>4 </sup></b>And if they go into captivity before their enemies, from there I shall command the sword, and it must kill them; and I will set my eyes upon them for bad, and not for good. <a id="chapter9_verse5"></a><b><sup>5 </sup></b>And the Sovereign Lord, Jehovah of the armies, is the One touching the land, so that it melts; and all the inhabitants in it will have to mourn; and it will certainly come up like the Nile, all of it, and sink down like the Nile of Egypt.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter9_verse6"></a><b><sup>6 </sup></b>“‘He who is building in the heavens his stairs, and his structure over the earth that he founded; he who is calling for the waters of the sea, that he may pour them out upon the surface of the earth—Jehovah is his name.’</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter9_verse7"></a><b><sup>7 </sup></b>“‘Are <span class="smcap">YOU </span>not like the sons of the Cush′ites to me, O sons of Israel?’ is the utterance of Jehovah. ‘Did I not bring Israel itself up out of the land of Egypt, and the Phi·lis′tines out of Crete, and Syria out of Kir?’</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter9_verse8"></a><b><sup>8 </sup></b>“‘Look! The eyes of the Sovereign Lord Jehovah are upon the sinful kingdom, and he will certainly annihilate it from upon the surface of the ground. Nevertheless, I shall not completely annihilate the house of Jacob,’ is the utterance of Jehovah. <a id="chapter9_verse9"></a><b><sup>9 </sup></b>‘For, look! I am commanding, and I will jiggle the house of Israel among all the nations, just as one jiggles the sieve, so that not a pebble falls to the earth. <a id="chapter9_verse10"></a><b><sup>10 </sup></b>By the sword they will die—all the sinners of my people, those who are saying: “The calamity will not come near or reach as far as us.”’</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter9_verse11"></a><b><sup>11 </sup></b>“‘In that day I shall raise up the booth of David that is fallen, and I shall certainly repair their breaches. And its ruins I shall raise up, and I shall certainly build it up as in the days of long ago, <a id="chapter9_verse12"></a><b><sup>12 </sup></b>to the end that they may take possession of what is left remaining of E′dom, and all the nations upon whom my name has been called,’ is the utterance of Jehovah, who is doing this.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter9_verse13"></a><b><sup>13 </sup></b>“‘Look! There are days coming,’ is the utterance of Jehovah, ‘and the plowman will actually overtake the harvester, and the treader of grapes, the carrier of the seed; and the mountains must drip with sweet wine, and the very hills will all find themselves melting. <a id="chapter9_verse14"></a><b><sup>14 </sup></b>And I will gather back the captive ones of my people Israel, and they will actually build the desolated cities and inhabit them, and plant vineyards and drink the wine of them, and make gardens and eat the fruit of them.’</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter9_verse15"></a><b><sup>15 </sup></b>“‘And I shall certainly plant them upon their ground, and they will no more be uprooted from their ground that I have given them,’ Jehovah your God has said.”</p>
</body>
</html>
