<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="application/xhtml+xml; charset=utf-8" />
<title>Amos 2</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/bi12.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
<p class="w_biblebookname">Amos</p><p class="sb"><a id="chapter2"></a><a id="chapter2_verse1"></a><span class="w_ch"><b>2 </b></span>“This is what Jehovah has said, ‘“On account of three revolts of Mo′ab, and on account of four, I shall not turn it back, on account of his burning the bones of the king of E′dom for lime. <a id="chapter2_verse2"></a><b><sup>2 </sup></b>And I will send a fire into Mo′ab, and it must devour the dwelling towers of Ke′ri·oth; and with noise Mo′ab must die, with an alarm signal, with the sound of a horn. <a id="chapter2_verse3"></a><b><sup>3 </sup></b>And I will cut off the judge from the midst of her, and all her princes I shall kill with him,” Jehovah has said.’</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter2_verse4"></a><b><sup>4 </sup></b>“This is what Jehovah has said, ‘On account of three revolts of Judah, and on account of four, I shall not turn it back, on account of their rejecting the law of Jehovah, and because they did not keep his own regulations; but their lies, after which their forefathers had walked, kept making them wander. <a id="chapter2_verse5"></a><b><sup>5 </sup></b>And I will send a fire into Judah, and it must devour the dwelling towers of Jerusalem.’</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter2_verse6"></a><b><sup>6 </sup></b>“This is what Jehovah has said, ‘On account of three revolts of Israel, and on account of four, I shall not turn it back, on account of their selling someone righteous for mere silver, and someone poor for the price of a pair of sandals. <a id="chapter2_verse7"></a><b><sup>7 </sup></b>They are panting for the dust of the earth on the head of lowly persons; and the way of meek people they <a id="page1170"></a>turn aside; and a man and his own father have gone to the same girl, for the purpose of profaning my holy name. <a id="chapter2_verse8"></a><b><sup>8 </sup></b>And on garments seized as a pledge they stretch themselves out beside every altar; and the wine of those who have been fined they drink at the house of their gods.’</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter2_verse9"></a><b><sup>9 </sup></b>“‘But as for me, I had annihilated the Am′or·ite on account of them, whose height was like the height of cedars, and who was vigorous like the massive trees; and I went annihilating his fruitage above and his roots below. <a id="chapter2_verse10"></a><b><sup>10 </sup></b>And I myself brought <span class="smcap">YOU </span>people up out of the land of Egypt, and I kept making <span class="smcap">YOU </span>walk through the wilderness forty years, in order to take possession of the land of the Am′or·ite. <a id="chapter2_verse11"></a><b><sup>11 </sup></b>And I kept raising up some of <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>sons as prophets and some of <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>young men as Naz′i·rites. Should this really not be, O sons of Israel?’ is the utterance of Jehovah.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter2_verse12"></a><b><sup>12 </sup></b>“‘But <span class="smcap">YOU </span>kept giving the Naz′i·rites wine to drink, and upon the prophets <span class="smcap">YOU </span>laid a command, saying: “Y<span class="smcap">OU </span>must not prophesy.” <a id="chapter2_verse13"></a><b><sup>13 </sup></b>Here I am making what is under <span class="smcap">YOU </span>sway, just as the wagon sways that is full up with a row of newly cut grain. <a id="chapter2_verse14"></a><b><sup>14 </sup></b>And a place to which to flee must perish from the swift one, and no one strong will reinforce his power, and no mighty man will provide his soul with escape. <a id="chapter2_verse15"></a><b><sup>15 </sup></b>And no one handling the bow will stand, and no one swift on his feet will escape, and no rider of the horse will provide his soul with escape. <a id="chapter2_verse16"></a><b><sup>16 </sup></b>And as for one strong in his heart among the mighty men, naked is how he will flee in that day,’ is the utterance of Jehovah.”</p>
</body>
</html>
