<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="application/xhtml+xml; charset=utf-8" />
<title>Amos 4</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/bi12.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
<p class="w_biblebookname">Amos</p><p class="sb"><a id="chapter4"></a><a id="chapter4_verse1"></a><span class="w_ch"><b>4 </b></span>“Hear this word, <span class="smcap">YOU </span>cows of Ba′shan, who are on the mountain of Sa·mar′i·a, who are defrauding the lowly ones, who are crushing the poor ones, who are saying to their masters, ‘Do bring, and let us drink!’ <a id="chapter4_verse2"></a><b><sup>2 </sup></b>The Sovereign Lord Jehovah has sworn by his holiness, ‘“Look! There are days coming upon <span class="smcap">YOU</span>, and he will certainly lift <span class="smcap">YOU </span>up with butcher hooks and the last part of <span class="smcap">YOU </span>with fishhooks. <a id="chapter4_verse3"></a><b><sup>3 </sup></b>And by breaches <span class="smcap">YOU </span>will go forth, each one straight ahead; and <span class="smcap">YOU </span>will certainly be thrown out to Har′mon,” is the utterance of Jehovah.’</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter4_verse4"></a><b><sup>4 </sup></b>“‘Come, <span class="smcap">YOU </span>people, to Beth′el and commit transgression. At Gil′gal be frequent in committing transgression, and bring <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>sacrifices in the morning; on the third day, <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>tenth parts. <a id="chapter4_verse5"></a><b><sup>5 </sup></b>And from what is leavened make a thanksgiving sacrifice to smoke, and proclaim voluntary offerings; publish it, for that is the way <span class="smcap">YOU </span>have loved, O sons of Israel,’ is the utterance of the Sovereign Lord Jehovah.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter4_verse6"></a><b><sup>6 </sup></b>“‘And I also, for my part, gave <span class="smcap">YOU </span>people cleanness of teeth in all <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>cities and want of bread in all <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>places; but <span class="smcap">YOU </span>did not come back to me,’ is the utterance of Jehovah.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter4_verse7"></a><b><sup>7 </sup></b>“‘And as for me, I also withheld from <span class="smcap">YOU </span>people the downpour when there were yet three months to the harvest; and I made it rain on one city, but on another city I would not make it rain. There was one tract of land that would be rained on, but a tract of land on which I would not make it rain would be dried up. <a id="chapter4_verse8"></a><b><sup>8 </sup></b>And two or three cities staggered to one city in order to drink water, and they would not get satisfied; but <span class="smcap">YOU </span>did not come back to me,’ is the utterance of Jehovah.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter4_verse9"></a><b><sup>9 </sup></b>“‘I struck <span class="smcap">YOU </span>people with scorching and mildew. There was a multiplying of <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>gardens and of <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>vineyards, but <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>fig trees and <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>olive trees the caterpillar would devour; yet <span class="smcap">YOU </span>did not come back to me,’ is the utterance of Jehovah.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter4_verse10"></a><b><sup>10 </sup></b>“‘I sent among <span class="smcap">YOU </span>people a pestilence in the nature of that of Egypt. With the sword I killed <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>young men, along with the taking captive of <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>horses. And I kept making the stink of <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>camps ascend even into <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>nostrils; but <span class="smcap">YOU </span>did not come back to me,’ is the utterance of Jehovah.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter4_verse11"></a><b><sup>11 </sup></b>“‘I caused an overthrow among <span class="smcap">YOU </span>people, like God’s <a id="page1172"></a>overthrow of Sod′om and Go·mor′rah. And <span class="smcap">YOU </span>came to be like a log snatched out of the burning; but <span class="smcap">YOU </span>did not come back to me,’ is the utterance of Jehovah.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter4_verse12"></a><b><sup>12 </sup></b>“Therefore that is what I shall do to you, O Israel. As a consequence of the fact that I shall do this very thing to you, get ready to meet your God, O Israel. <a id="chapter4_verse13"></a><b><sup>13 </sup></b>For, look! the Former of the mountains and the Creator of the wind, and the One telling to earthling man what his mental concern is, the One making dawn into obscurity, and the One treading on earth’s high places, Jehovah the God of armies is his name.”</p>
</body>
</html>
