<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="application/xhtml+xml; charset=utf-8" />
<title>Amos 5</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/bi12.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
<p class="w_biblebookname">Amos</p><p class="sb"><a id="chapter5"></a><a id="chapter5_verse1"></a><span class="w_ch"><b>5 </b></span>“Hear this word that I am taking up over <span class="smcap">YOU </span>people as a dirge, O house of Israel:</p>
<p class="sl"><a id="chapter5_verse2"></a> <b><sup>2 </sup></b>“The virgin, Israel, has fallen;</p>
<p class="sz">She cannot get up again.</p>
<p class="sp">She has been forsaken upon her own ground;</p>
<p class="sz">There is no one raising her up.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter5_verse3"></a><b><sup>3 </sup></b>“For this is what the Sovereign Lord Jehovah has said, ‘The very city that was going forth with a thousand will have a hundred left; and the one going forth with a hundred will have ten left, for the house of Israel.’</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter5_verse4"></a><b><sup>4 </sup></b>“For this is what Jehovah has said to the house of Israel, ‘Search for me, and keep living. <a id="chapter5_verse5"></a><b><sup>5 </sup></b>And do not search for Beth′el, and to Gil′gal <span class="smcap">YOU </span>must not come, and to Be′er-she′ba <span class="smcap">YOU </span>must not pass over; because Gil′gal itself will without fail go into exile; and as regards Beth′el, it will become something uncanny. <a id="chapter5_verse6"></a><b><sup>6 </sup></b>Search for Jehovah, and keep living, that he may not become operative just like fire, O house of Joseph, and it may not actually devour, and Beth′el may not be with no one to extinguish it, <a id="chapter5_verse7"></a><b><sup>7 </sup></b>O <span class="smcap">YOU </span>who are turning justice into mere wormwood, and the ones who have cast righteousness itself to the earth. <a id="chapter5_verse8"></a><b><sup>8 </sup></b>The Maker of the Ki′mah constellation and the Ke′sil constellation, and the One turning deep shadow into the morning itself, and the One who has made day itself dark as night, the One calling for the waters of the sea, that he may pour them out upon the surface of the earth—Jehovah is his name; <a id="chapter5_verse9"></a><b><sup>9 </sup></b>he who is causing a despoiling to flash forth upon someone strong, that despoiling itself may come upon even a fortified place.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter5_verse10"></a><b><sup>10 </sup></b>“‘In the gate they have hated a reprover, and a speaker of perfect things they detest. <a id="chapter5_verse11"></a><b><sup>11 </sup></b>Therefore, for the reason that <span class="smcap">YOU </span>are extracting farm rent from someone lowly, and the tribute of grain <span class="smcap">YOU </span>keep taking from him; houses of hewn stone <span class="smcap">YOU </span>have built, but <span class="smcap">YOU </span>will not keep dwelling in them; and desirable vineyards <span class="smcap">YOU </span>have planted, but <span class="smcap">YOU </span>will not keep drinking the wine of them. <a id="chapter5_verse12"></a><b><sup>12 </sup></b>For I have known how many <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>revolts are and how mighty <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>sins are, O <span class="smcap">YOU </span>who are showing hostility toward someone righteous, <span class="smcap">YOU </span>who are taking hush money, and the ones who have turned aside poor people even in the gate. <a id="chapter5_verse13"></a><b><sup>13 </sup></b>Therefore the very one having insight will in that time keep silent, for it will be a calamitous time.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter5_verse14"></a><b><sup>14 </sup></b>“‘Search for what is good, and not what is bad, to the end that <span class="smcap">YOU </span>people may keep living; and that thus Jehovah the God of armies may come to be with <span class="smcap">YOU</span>, just as <span class="smcap">YOU </span>have said. <a id="chapter5_verse15"></a><b><sup>15 </sup></b>Hate what is bad, and love what is good, and give justice a place in <a id="page1173"></a>the gate. It may be that Jehovah the God of armies will show favor to the remaining ones of Joseph.’</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter5_verse16"></a><b><sup>16 </sup></b>“Therefore this is what Jehovah the God of armies, Jehovah, has said, ‘In all the public squares there will be wailing, and in all the streets people will be saying: “Ah! Ah!” And they will have to call a farmer to mourning, and to wailing those experienced in lamentation.’ <a id="chapter5_verse17"></a><b><sup>17 </sup></b>‘And in all vineyards there will be wailing; for I shall pass through the midst of you,’ Jehovah has said.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter5_verse18"></a><b><sup>18 </sup></b>“‘Woe to those who are craving the day of Jehovah! What, then, will the day of Jehovah mean to <span class="smcap">YOU </span>people? It will be darkness, and no light, <a id="chapter5_verse19"></a><b><sup>19 </sup></b>just as when a man flees because of the lion, and the bear actually meets him; and as when he went into the house and supported his hand against the wall, and the serpent bit him. <a id="chapter5_verse20"></a><b><sup>20 </sup></b>Will not the day of Jehovah be darkness, and not light; and will it not have gloom, and not brightness? <a id="chapter5_verse21"></a><b><sup>21 </sup></b>I have hated, I have rejected <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>festivals, and I shall not enjoy the smell of <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>solemn assemblies. <a id="chapter5_verse22"></a><b><sup>22 </sup></b>But if <span class="smcap">YOU </span>people offer up to me whole burnt offerings, even in <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>gift offerings I shall find no pleasure, and on <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>communion sacrifices of fatlings I shall not look. <a id="chapter5_verse23"></a><b><sup>23 </sup></b>Remove from me the turmoil of your songs; and the melodious sound of your stringed instruments may I not hear. <a id="chapter5_verse24"></a><b><sup>24 </sup></b>And let justice roll forth just like waters, and righteousness like a constantly flowing torrent. <a id="chapter5_verse25"></a><b><sup>25 </sup></b>Was it sacrifices and gift offerings that <span class="smcap">YOU </span>people brought near to me in the wilderness for forty years, O house of Israel? <a id="chapter5_verse26"></a><b><sup>26 </sup></b>And <span class="smcap">YOU </span>will certainly carry Sak′kuth <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>king and Kai′wan, <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>images, the star of <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>god, whom <span class="smcap">YOU </span>made for yourselves. <a id="chapter5_verse27"></a><b><sup>27 </sup></b>And I will cause <span class="smcap">YOU </span>to go into exile beyond Damascus,’ he whose name is Jehovah the God of armies has said.”</p>
</body>
</html>
