<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="application/xhtml+xml; charset=utf-8" />
<title>Nahum</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/bi12.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
<p class="st"><a id="page1187"></a><b>Nahum</b></p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter1"></a><a id="chapter1_verse1"></a><span class="w_ch"><b>1 </b></span>The pronouncement against Nin′e·veh: The book of the vision of Na′hum the El′kosh·ite:</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter1_verse2"></a><b><sup>2 </sup></b>Jehovah is a God exacting exclusive devotion and taking vengeance; Jehovah is taking vengeance and is disposed to rage. Jehovah is taking vengeance against his adversaries, and he is resentful toward his enemies.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter1_verse3"></a><b><sup>3 </sup></b>Jehovah is slow to anger and great in power, and by no means will Jehovah hold back from punishing.</p>
<p class="sb">In destructive wind and in storm is his way, and the cloud mass is the powder of his feet.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter1_verse4"></a><b><sup>4 </sup></b>He is rebuking the sea, and he dries it up; and all the rivers he actually makes run dry.</p>
<p class="sb">Ba′shan and Car′mel have withered, and the very blossom of Leb′a·non has withered.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter1_verse5"></a><b><sup>5 </sup></b>Mountains themselves have rocked because of him, and the very hills found themselves melting.</p>
<p class="sb">And the earth will be upheaved because of his face; the productive land also, and all those dwelling in it.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="page1188"></a><a id="chapter1_verse6"></a><b><sup>6 </sup></b>In the face of his denunciation who can stand? And who can rise up against the heat of his anger?</p>
<p class="sb">His own rage will certainly be poured out like fire, and the very rocks will actually be pulled down because of him.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter1_verse7"></a><b><sup>7 </sup></b>Jehovah is good, a stronghold in the day of distress.</p>
<p class="sb">And he is cognizant of those seeking refuge in him.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter1_verse8"></a><b><sup>8 </sup></b>And by the flood that is passing along he will make an outright extermination of her place, and darkness will pursue his very enemies.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter1_verse9"></a><b><sup>9 </sup></b>What will <span class="smcap">YOU </span>men think up against Jehovah? He is causing an outright extermination.</p>
<p class="sb">Distress will not rise up a second time.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter1_verse10"></a><b><sup>10 </sup></b>Although they are being interwoven even as thorns and they are drunken as with their wheat beer, they will certainly be devoured like stubble fully dry.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter1_verse11"></a><b><sup>11 </sup></b>Out of you there will actually go forth one who is thinking up against Jehovah what is bad, counseling what is not worth while.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter1_verse12"></a><b><sup>12 </sup></b>This is what Jehovah has said: “Although they were in complete form and there were many in that state, even in that state they must be cut down; and one must pass through. And I shall certainly afflict you, so that I shall not afflict you anymore. <a id="chapter1_verse13"></a><b><sup>13 </sup></b>And now I shall break his carrying bar from upon you, and the bands upon you I shall tear in two. <a id="chapter1_verse14"></a><b><sup>14 </sup></b>And concerning you Jehovah has commanded, ‘Nothing of your name will be sown anymore. Out of the house of your gods I shall cut off carved image and molten statue. I shall make a burial place for you, because you have been of no account.’</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter1_verse15"></a><b><sup>15 </sup></b>“Look! Upon the mountains the feet of one bringing good news, one publishing peace. O Judah, celebrate your festivals. Pay your vows; because no more will any good-for-nothing person pass again through you. In his entirety he will certainly be cut off.”</p>
</body>
</html>
