<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="application/xhtml+xml; charset=utf-8" />
<title>Haggai</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/bi12.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
<p class="st"><a id="page1197"></a><b>Haggai</b></p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter1"></a><a id="chapter1_verse1"></a><span class="w_ch"><b>1 </b></span>In the second year of Da·ri′us the king, in the sixth month, on the first day of the month, the word of Jehovah occurred by means of Hag′gai the prophet to Ze·rub′ba·bel the son of She·al′ti·el, the governor of Judah, and to Joshua the son of Je·hoz′a·dak the high priest, saying:</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter1_verse2"></a><b><sup>2 </sup></b>“This is what Jehovah of armies has said, ‘As regards this people, they have said: “The time has not come, the time of the house of Jehovah, for it to be built.”’”</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter1_verse3"></a><b><sup>3 </sup></b>And the word of Jehovah continued to come by means of Hag′gai the prophet, saying: <a id="chapter1_verse4"></a><b><sup>4 </sup></b>“Is it the time for <span class="smcap">YOU </span>yourselves to dwell in <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>paneled houses, while this house is waste? <a id="chapter1_verse5"></a><b><sup>5 </sup></b>And now this is what Jehovah of armies has said, ‘Set <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>heart upon <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>ways. <a id="chapter1_verse6"></a><b><sup>6 </sup></b>Y<span class="smcap">OU </span>have sown much seed, but there is a bringing of little in. There is an eating, but it is not to satisfaction. There is a drinking, but not to the point of getting intoxicated. There is a putting on of clothes, but it is not with anyone’s getting warm; and he that is hiring himself out is hiring himself out for a bag having holes.’”</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter1_verse7"></a><b><sup>7 </sup></b>“This is what Jehovah of armies has said, ‘Set <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>heart upon <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>ways.’</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter1_verse8"></a><b><sup>8 </sup></b>“‘Go up to the mountain, and <span class="smcap">YOU </span>must bring in lumber. And build the house, that I may take pleasure in it and I may be glorified,’ Jehovah has said.”</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter1_verse9"></a><b><sup>9 </sup></b>“‘There was a looking for much, but here there was just a little; and <span class="smcap">YOU </span>have brought it into the house, and I blew upon it—for what reason?’ is the utterance of Jehovah of armies. ‘By reason of my house that is waste, while <span class="smcap">YOU </span>are on the run, each one in behalf of his own house. <a id="chapter1_verse10"></a><b><sup>10 </sup></b>Therefore over <span class="smcap">YOU </span>the heavens kept back their dew, and the earth itself kept back its yield. <a id="chapter1_verse11"></a><b><sup>11 </sup></b>And I kept calling for dryness upon the earth, and upon the mountains, and upon the grain, and upon the new wine, and upon the oil, and upon what the ground would bring forth, and upon earthling man, and upon domestic animal, and upon all the toil of the hands.’”</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter1_verse12"></a><b><sup>12 </sup></b>And Ze·rub′ba·bel the son of She·al′ti·el, and Joshua the son of Je·hoz′a·dak the high priest, and all the remaining ones of the people began to listen to the voice of Jehovah their God, and to the words of Hag′gai the prophet, as Jehovah their God had sent him; and the people began to fear because of Jehovah.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter1_verse13"></a><b><sup>13 </sup></b>And Hag′gai the messenger of Jehovah went on to say to the people according to the messenger’s commission from Jehovah, saying: “‘I am with <span class="smcap">YOU </span>people,’ is the utterance of Jehovah.”</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter1_verse14"></a><b><sup>14 </sup></b>And Jehovah proceeded to rouse up the spirit of Ze·rub′ba·bel the son of She·al′ti·el, the governor of Judah, and the spirit of Joshua the son of Je·hoz′a·dak the high priest, and the spirit of all the remaining ones of the people; and they began to enter in and to do the work in the house of Jehovah of armies their God. <a id="chapter1_verse15"></a><b><sup>15 </sup></b>It was on the twenty-fourth day of the sixth month in the second year of Da·ri′us the king.</p>
</body>
</html>
