<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="application/xhtml+xml; charset=utf-8" />
<title>Zechariah 4</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/bi12.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
<p class="w_biblebookname">Zechariah</p><p class="sb"><a id="chapter4"></a><a id="chapter4_verse1"></a><span class="w_ch"><b>4 </b></span>And the angel who was speaking with me proceeded to come back and wake me up, like a man that is awakened <a id="page1202"></a>from his sleep. <a id="chapter4_verse2"></a><b><sup>2 </sup></b>Then he said to me: “What are you seeing?”</p>
<p class="sb">So I said: “I have seen, and, look! there is a lampstand, all of it of gold, with a bowl on top of it. And its seven lamps are upon it, even seven; and the lamps that are at the top of it have seven pipes. <a id="chapter4_verse3"></a><b><sup>3 </sup></b>And there are two olive trees alongside it, one on the right side of the bowl and one on its left side.”</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter4_verse4"></a><b><sup>4 </sup></b>Then I answered and said to the angel who was speaking with me, saying: “What do these things mean, my lord?” <a id="chapter4_verse5"></a><b><sup>5 </sup></b>So the angel who was speaking with me answered and said to me: “Do you not really know what these things mean?”</p>
<p class="sb">In turn I said: “No, my lord.”</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter4_verse6"></a><b><sup>6 </sup></b>Accordingly he answered and said to me: “This is the word of Jehovah to Ze·rub′ba·bel, saying, ‘“Not by a military force, nor by power, but by my spirit,” Jehovah of armies has said. <a id="chapter4_verse7"></a><b><sup>7 </sup></b>Who are you, O great mountain? Before Ze·rub′ba·bel you will become a level land. And he will certainly bring forth the headstone. There will be shoutings to it: “How charming! How charming!”’”</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter4_verse8"></a><b><sup>8 </sup></b>And the word of Jehovah continued to occur to me, saying: <a id="chapter4_verse9"></a><b><sup>9 </sup></b>“The very hands of Ze·rub′ba·bel have laid the foundation of this house, and his own hands will finish it. And you will have to know that Jehovah of armies himself has sent me to <span class="smcap">YOU </span>people. <a id="chapter4_verse10"></a><b><sup>10 </sup></b>For who has despised the day of small things? And they will certainly rejoice and see the plummet in the hand of Ze·rub′ba·bel. These seven are the eyes of Jehovah. They are roving about in all the earth.”</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter4_verse11"></a><b><sup>11 </sup></b>And I proceeded to answer and say to him: “What do these two olive trees on the right side of the lampstand and on its left side mean?” <a id="chapter4_verse12"></a><b><sup>12 </sup></b>Then I answered the second time and said to him: “What are the two bunches of twigs of the olive trees that, by means of the two golden tubes, are pouring forth from within themselves the golden liquid?”</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter4_verse13"></a><b><sup>13 </sup></b>So he said to me: “Do you not really know what these things mean?”</p>
<p class="sb">In turn I said: “No, my lord.”</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter4_verse14"></a><b><sup>14 </sup></b>Accordingly he said: “These are the two anointed ones who are standing alongside the Lord of the whole earth.”</p>
</body>
</html>
