<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="application/xhtml+xml; charset=utf-8" />
<title>Zechariah 6</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/bi12.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
<p class="w_biblebookname">Zechariah</p><p class="sb"><a id="chapter6"></a><a id="chapter6_verse1"></a><span class="w_ch"><b>6 </b></span>Then I raised my eyes again and saw; and, look! there were four chariots coming forth from between two mountains, and the mountains were copper mountains. <a id="chapter6_verse2"></a><b><sup>2 </sup></b>In the first chariot there were red horses; and in the second chariot, black horses. <a id="chapter6_verse3"></a><b><sup>3 </sup></b>And in the third chariot there were white horses; and in the fourth chariot, horses speckled, parti-colored.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter6_verse4"></a><b><sup>4 </sup></b>And I proceeded to answer and say to the angel who was speaking with me: “What are these, my lord?”</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter6_verse5"></a><b><sup>5 </sup></b>So the angel answered and said to me: “These are the four spirits of the heavens that are going forth after having taken their station before the Lord of the whole earth. <a id="chapter6_verse6"></a><b><sup>6 </sup></b>As for the one in which the black horses are, they are going forth to the land of the north; and as for the white ones, they must go forth to behind the sea; and as for the speckled ones, they must go forth to the land of the south. <a id="chapter6_verse7"></a><b><sup>7 </sup></b>And as for the parti-colored ones, they must go forth and keep seeking where to go, in order to walk about in the earth.” Then he said: “Go, walk about in the earth.” And they began walking about in the earth.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter6_verse8"></a><b><sup>8 </sup></b>And he proceeded to cry out to me and speak to me, saying: “See, those going forth to the land of the north are the ones that have caused the spirit of Jehovah to rest in the land of the north.”</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter6_verse9"></a><b><sup>9 </sup></b>And the word of Jehovah continued to occur to me, saying: <a id="chapter6_verse10"></a><b><sup>10 </sup></b>“Let there be a taking of something from the exiled people, even from Hel′dai and from To·bi′jah and from Je·da′iah; and you yourself must come in that day, and you must come into the house of Jo·si′ah the son of Zeph·a·ni′ah with these who have come from Babylon. <a id="chapter6_verse11"></a><b><sup>11 </sup></b>And you must take silver and gold and make a grand crown and put it upon the head of Joshua the son of Je·hoz′a·dak the high priest. <a id="chapter6_verse12"></a><b><sup>12 </sup></b>And you must say to him,</p>
<p class="sb">“‘This is what Jehovah of armies has said: “Here is the man whose name is Sprout. And from his own place he will sprout, and he will certainly build the temple of Jehovah. <a id="chapter6_verse13"></a><b><sup>13 </sup></b>And he himself will build the temple of Jehovah, and he, for his part, will carry the dignity; and he must sit down and rule on his throne, and he must become a priest upon his throne, and the very counsel of peace will prove to be between both of them. <a id="chapter6_verse14"></a><b><sup>14 </sup></b>And the grand crown itself will come to belong to He′lem and to To·bi′jah and to Je·da′iah and to Hen the son of Zeph·a·ni′ah as a memorial in the temple of Jehovah. <a id="chapter6_verse15"></a><b><sup>15 </sup></b>And those who are far away will come and actually build in the temple <a id="page1204"></a>of Jehovah.” And <span class="smcap">YOU </span>people will have to know that Jehovah of armies himself has sent me to <span class="smcap">YOU</span>. And it must occur—if <span class="smcap">YOU </span>will without fail listen to the voice of Jehovah <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>God.’”</p>
</body>
</html>
