<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="application/xhtml+xml; charset=utf-8" />
<title>Malachi 2</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/bi12.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
<p class="w_biblebookname">Malachi</p><p class="sb"><a id="chapter2"></a><a id="chapter2_verse1"></a><span class="w_ch"><b>2 </b></span>“And now this commandment is to <span class="smcap">YOU</span>, O priests. <a id="chapter2_verse2"></a><b><sup>2 </sup></b>If <span class="smcap">YOU </span>will not listen, and if <span class="smcap">YOU </span>will not lay it to heart to give glory to my name,” Jehovah of armies has said, “I shall also certainly send upon <span class="smcap">YOU </span>the curse, and I will curse <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>blessings. Yes, I have even cursed the blessing, because <span class="smcap">YOU </span>are not laying it to heart.”</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter2_verse3"></a><b><sup>3 </sup></b>“Look! I am rebuking on <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>account the sown seed, and I will scatter dung upon <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>faces, the dung of <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>festivals; and someone will actually carry <span class="smcap">YOU </span>away to it. <a id="chapter2_verse4"></a><b><sup>4 </sup></b>And <span class="smcap">YOU </span>will have to know that I have sent to <span class="smcap">YOU </span>this commandment, in order that my covenant with Le′vi may continue,” Jehovah of armies has said.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter2_verse5"></a><b><sup>5 </sup></b>“As for my covenant, it proved to be with him, one of life and of peace, and I kept giving them to him, with fear. And he continued fearing me; yes, because of my name he himself was struck with terror. <a id="chapter2_verse6"></a><b><sup>6 </sup></b>The very law of truth proved to be in his mouth, and there was no unrighteousness to be found on his lips. In peace and in uprightness he walked with me, and many were those whom he turned back from error. <a id="chapter2_verse7"></a><b><sup>7 </sup></b>For the lips of a priest are the ones that should keep knowledge, and the law is what people should seek from his mouth; for he is the messenger of Jehovah of armies.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter2_verse8"></a><b><sup>8 </sup></b>“But <span class="smcap">YOU </span>men—<span class="smcap">YOU </span>have turned aside from the way. Y<span class="smcap">OU </span>have caused many to stumble in the law. Y<span class="smcap">OU </span>have ruined the covenant of Le′vi,” Jehovah of armies has said. <a id="chapter2_verse9"></a><b><sup>9 </sup></b>“And I also, for my part, shall certainly make <span class="smcap">YOU </span>to be despised and low to all the people, according as <span class="smcap">YOU </span>were not keeping my ways, but were showing partiality in the law.”</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter2_verse10"></a><b><sup>10 </sup></b>“Is it not one father that all of us have? Is it not one God that has created us? Why is it that we deal treacherously with one another, in profaning the covenant of our forefathers? <a id="chapter2_verse11"></a><b><sup>11 </sup></b>Judah has dealt treacherously, and a detestable thing has been committed in Israel and in Jerusalem; for Judah has profaned the holiness of Jehovah, which He has loved, and he has taken possession of the daughter of a foreign god as a bride. <a id="chapter2_verse12"></a><b><sup>12 </sup></b>Jehovah will cut off each one that does it, one who is awake and one who is answering, from the tents of Jacob, and one who is presenting a gift offering to Jehovah of armies.”</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter2_verse13"></a><b><sup>13 </sup></b>“And this is the second thing that <span class="smcap">YOU </span>people do, this resulting in covering with tears the altar of Jehovah, with weeping and sighing, so that there is no more a turning toward the gift offering or a taking of pleasure in anything from <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>hand. <a id="chapter2_verse14"></a><b><sup>14 </sup></b>And <span class="smcap">YOU </span>have said, ‘On what account?’ On this account, that Jehovah himself has borne witness between you and the wife of your youth, with whom you yourself have dealt treacherously, although she is your partner and the wife of your covenant. <a id="chapter2_verse15"></a><b><sup>15 </sup></b>And there was one who did not do it, as he had what was remaining of the spirit. And what was that one seeking? The seed of God. And <span class="smcap">YOU </span>people must guard yourselves respecting <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>spirit, and with the wife of your youth may no one deal treacherously. <a id="chapter2_verse16"></a><b><sup>16 </sup></b>For he has hated a divorcing,” Jehovah the God of Israel has said; “and the one who with violence has covered over his garment,” Jehovah of armies has said. “And <a id="page1214"></a><span class="smcap">YOU </span>must guard yourselves respecting <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>spirit, and <span class="smcap">YOU </span>must not deal treacherously.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter2_verse17"></a><b><sup>17 </sup></b>“Y<span class="smcap">OU </span>people have made Jehovah weary by <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>words, and <span class="smcap">YOU </span>have said, ‘In what way have we made him weary?’ By <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>saying, ‘Everyone that is doing bad is good in the eyes of Jehovah, and in such ones he himself has taken delight’; or, ‘Where is the God of justice?’”</p>
</body>
</html>
