<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="application/xhtml+xml; charset=utf-8" />
<title>Matthew 9</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/bi12.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
<p class="w_biblebookname">Matthew</p><p class="sb"><a id="chapter9"></a><a id="chapter9_verse1"></a><span class="w_ch"><b>9 </b></span>So, boarding the boat, he proceeded across and went into his own city. <a id="chapter9_verse2"></a><b><sup>2 </sup></b>And, look! they were bringing him a paralyzed man lying on a bed. On seeing their faith Jesus said to the paralytic: “Take courage, child; your sins are forgiven.” <a id="chapter9_verse3"></a><b><sup>3 </sup></b>And, look! certain of the scribes said to themselves: “This fellow is blaspheming.” <a id="chapter9_verse4"></a><b><sup>4 </sup></b>And Jesus, knowing their thoughts, said: “Why are <span class="smcap">YOU </span>thinking wicked things in <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>hearts? <a id="chapter9_verse5"></a><b><sup>5 </sup></b>For instance, which is easier, to say, Your sins are forgiven, or to say, Get up and walk? <a id="chapter9_verse6"></a><b><sup>6 </sup></b>However, in order for <span class="smcap">YOU </span>to know that the Son of man has authority on earth to forgive sins—” then he said to the paralytic: “Get up, pick up your bed, and go to your home.” <a id="chapter9_verse7"></a><b><sup>7 </sup></b>And he got up and went off to his home. <a id="chapter9_verse8"></a><b><sup>8 </sup></b>At the sight of this the crowds were <a id="page1226"></a>struck with fear, and they glorified God, who gave such authority to men.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter9_verse9"></a><b><sup>9 </sup></b>Next, while passing along from there, Jesus caught sight of a man named Matthew seated at the tax office, and he said to him: “Be my follower.” Thereupon he did rise up and follow him. <a id="chapter9_verse10"></a><b><sup>10 </sup></b>Later, while he was reclining at the table in the house, look! many tax collectors and sinners came and began reclining with Jesus and his disciples. <a id="chapter9_verse11"></a><b><sup>11 </sup></b>But on seeing this the Pharisees began to say to his disciples: “Why is it that <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>teacher eats with tax collectors and sinners?” <a id="chapter9_verse12"></a><b><sup>12 </sup></b>Hearing them, he said: “Persons in health do not need a physician, but the ailing do. <a id="chapter9_verse13"></a><b><sup>13 </sup></b>Go, then, and learn what this means, ‘I want mercy, and not sacrifice.’ For I came to call, not righteous people, but sinners.”</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter9_verse14"></a><b><sup>14 </sup></b>Then John’s disciples came to him and asked: “Why is it that we and the Pharisees practice fasting but your disciples do not fast?” <a id="chapter9_verse15"></a><b><sup>15 </sup></b>At this Jesus said to them: “The friends of the bridegroom have no reason to mourn as long as the bridegroom is with them, do they? But days will come when the bridegroom will be taken away from them, and then they will fast. <a id="chapter9_verse16"></a><b><sup>16 </sup></b>Nobody sews a patch of unshrunk cloth upon an old outer garment; for its full strength would pull from the outer garment and the tear would become worse. <a id="chapter9_verse17"></a><b><sup>17 </sup></b>Neither do people put new wine into old wineskins; but if they do, then the wineskins burst and the wine spills out and the wineskins are ruined. But people put new wine into new wineskins, and both things are preserved.”</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter9_verse18"></a><b><sup>18 </sup></b>While he was telling them these things, look! a certain ruler who had approached began to do obeisance to him, saying: “By now my daughter must be dead; but come and lay your hand upon her and she will come to life.”</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter9_verse19"></a><b><sup>19 </sup></b>Then Jesus, getting up, began to follow him; also his disciples did. <a id="chapter9_verse20"></a><b><sup>20 </sup></b>And, look! a woman suffering twelve years from a flow of blood came up behind and touched the fringe of his outer garment; <a id="chapter9_verse21"></a><b><sup>21 </sup></b>for she kept saying to herself: “If I only touch his outer garment I shall get well.” <a id="chapter9_verse22"></a><b><sup>22 </sup></b>Jesus turned around and, noticing her, said: “Take courage, daughter; your faith has made you well.” And from that hour the woman became well.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter9_verse23"></a><b><sup>23 </sup></b>When, now, he came into the ruler’s house and caught sight of the flute players and the crowd in noisy confusion, <a id="chapter9_verse24"></a><b><sup>24 </sup></b>Jesus began to say: “Leave the place, for the little girl did not die, but she is sleeping.” At this they began to laugh at him scornfully. <a id="chapter9_verse25"></a><b><sup>25 </sup></b>As soon as the crowd had been sent outside, he went in and took hold of her hand, and the little girl got up. <a id="chapter9_verse26"></a><b><sup>26 </sup></b>Of course, the talk about this spread out into all that region.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter9_verse27"></a><b><sup>27 </sup></b>As Jesus was passing along from there, two blind men followed him, crying out and saying: “Have mercy on us, Son of David.” <a id="chapter9_verse28"></a><b><sup>28 </sup></b>After he had gone into the house, the blind men came to him, and Jesus asked them: “Do <span class="smcap">YOU </span>have faith that I can do this?” They answered him: “Yes, Lord.” <a id="chapter9_verse29"></a><b><sup>29 </sup></b>Then he touched their eyes, saying: “According to <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>faith let it happen to <span class="smcap">YOU</span>.” <a id="chapter9_verse30"></a><b><sup>30 </sup></b>And their eyes received sight. Moreover, Jesus sternly charged them, saying: “See that nobody gets to know it.” <a id="chapter9_verse31"></a><b><sup>31 </sup></b>But they, after getting outside, made it public about him in all that region.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter9_verse32"></a><b><sup>32 </sup></b>Now when they were leaving, look! people brought him a dumb man possessed of a demon; <a id="chapter9_verse33"></a><b><sup>33 </sup></b>and after the demon <a id="page1227"></a>had been expelled the dumb man spoke. Well, the crowds felt amazement and said: “Never was anything like this seen in Israel.” <a id="chapter9_verse34"></a><b><sup>34 </sup></b>But the Pharisees began to say: “It is by the ruler of the demons that he expels the demons.”</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter9_verse35"></a><b><sup>35 </sup></b>And Jesus set out on a tour of all the cities and villages, teaching in their synagogues and preaching the good news of the kingdom and curing every sort of disease and every sort of infirmity. <a id="chapter9_verse36"></a><b><sup>36 </sup></b>On seeing the crowds he felt pity for them, because they were skinned and thrown about like sheep without a shepherd. <a id="chapter9_verse37"></a><b><sup>37 </sup></b>Then he said to his disciples: “Yes, the harvest is great, but the workers are few. <a id="chapter9_verse38"></a><b><sup>38 </sup></b>Therefore, beg the Master of the harvest to send out workers into his harvest.”</p>
</body>
</html>
