<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="application/xhtml+xml; charset=utf-8" />
<title>Matthew 14</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/bi12.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
<p class="w_biblebookname">Matthew</p><p class="sb"><a id="chapter14"></a><a id="chapter14_verse1"></a><span class="w_ch"><b>14 </b></span>At that particular time Herod, the district ruler, heard the report about Jesus <a id="chapter14_verse2"></a><b><sup>2 </sup></b>and said to his servants: “This is John the Baptist. He was raised up from the dead, and this is why the powerful works are operating in him.” <a id="chapter14_verse3"></a><b><sup>3 </sup></b>For Herod had arrested John and bound him and put him away in prison on account of He·ro′di·as the wife of Philip his brother. <a id="chapter14_verse4"></a><b><sup>4 </sup></b>For John had been saying to him: “It is not lawful for you to be having her.” <a id="chapter14_verse5"></a><b><sup>5 </sup></b>However, although he wanted to kill him, he feared the crowd, because they took him for a prophet. <a id="chapter14_verse6"></a><b><sup>6 </sup></b>But when Herod’s birthday was being celebrated the daughter of He·ro′di·as danced at it and pleased Herod so much <a id="chapter14_verse7"></a><b><sup>7 </sup></b>that he promised with an oath to give her whatever she asked. <a id="chapter14_verse8"></a><b><sup>8 </sup></b>Then she, under her mother’s coaching, said: “Give me here upon a platter the head of John the Baptist.” <a id="chapter14_verse9"></a><b><sup>9 </sup></b>Grieved though he was, the king out of regard for his oaths and for those reclining with him commanded it to be given; <a id="chapter14_verse10"></a><b><sup>10 </sup></b>and he sent and had John beheaded in the prison. <a id="chapter14_verse11"></a><b><sup>11 </sup></b>And his head was brought on a platter and given to the maiden, and she brought it to her mother. <a id="chapter14_verse12"></a><b><sup>12 </sup></b>Finally his disciples came up and removed the corpse and buried him and came and reported to Jesus. <a id="chapter14_verse13"></a><b><sup>13 </sup></b>At hearing this Jesus withdrew from there by boat into a lonely place for isolation; but the crowds, getting to hear of it, followed him on foot from the cities.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter14_verse14"></a><b><sup>14 </sup></b>Now when he came forth he saw a great crowd; and he felt pity for them, and he cured their sick ones. <a id="chapter14_verse15"></a><b><sup>15 </sup></b>But when evening fell his disciples came to him and said: “The place is lonely and the hour is already far advanced; send the crowds away, that they may go into the villages and buy themselves things to eat.” <a id="chapter14_verse16"></a><b><sup>16 </sup></b>However, Jesus said to them: “They do not have to leave: <span class="smcap">YOU </span>give them something to eat.” <a id="chapter14_verse17"></a><b><sup>17 </sup></b>They said to him: “We have nothing here but five loaves and two fishes.” <a id="chapter14_verse18"></a><b><sup>18 </sup></b>He said: “B<span class="smcap">RING </span>them here to me.” <a id="chapter14_verse19"></a><b><sup>19 </sup></b>Next he commanded the crowds to recline on the grass and took the five loaves and two fishes, and, looking up to heaven, he said a blessing and, after breaking the loaves, he distributed them to the disciples, the disciples in turn to the crowds. <a id="chapter14_verse20"></a><b><sup>20 </sup></b>So all ate and were satisfied, and they took up the surplus of fragments, twelve baskets full. <a id="chapter14_verse21"></a><b><sup>21 </sup></b>Yet those eating were about five thousand men, besides women and young children. <a id="chapter14_verse22"></a><b><sup>22 </sup></b>Then, without delay, he compelled his disciples to board the boat and go ahead of him to the other side, while he sent the crowds away.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="page1235"></a><a id="chapter14_verse23"></a><b><sup>23 </sup></b>Eventually, having sent the crowds away, he went up into the mountain by himself to pray. Though it became late, he was there alone. <a id="chapter14_verse24"></a><b><sup>24 </sup></b>By now the boat was many hundreds of yards away from land, being hard put to it by the waves, because the wind was against them. <a id="chapter14_verse25"></a><b><sup>25 </sup></b>But in the fourth watch period of the night he came to them, walking over the sea. <a id="chapter14_verse26"></a><b><sup>26 </sup></b>When they caught sight of him walking on the sea, the disciples were troubled, saying: “It is an apparition!” And they cried out in their fear. <a id="chapter14_verse27"></a><b><sup>27 </sup></b>But at once Jesus spoke to them with the words: “Take courage, it is I; have no fear.” <a id="chapter14_verse28"></a><b><sup>28 </sup></b>In reply Peter said to him: “Lord, if it is you, command me to come to you over the waters.” <a id="chapter14_verse29"></a><b><sup>29 </sup></b>He said: “Come!” Thereupon Peter, getting down off the boat, walked over the waters and went toward Jesus. <a id="chapter14_verse30"></a><b><sup>30 </sup></b>But looking at the windstorm, he got afraid and, after starting to sink, he cried out: “Lord, save me!” <a id="chapter14_verse31"></a><b><sup>31 </sup></b>Immediately stretching out his hand Jesus caught hold of him and said to him: “You with little faith, why did you give way to doubt?” <a id="chapter14_verse32"></a><b><sup>32 </sup></b>And after they got up into the boat, the windstorm abated. <a id="chapter14_verse33"></a><b><sup>33 </sup></b>Then those in the boat did obeisance to him, saying: “You are really God’s Son.” <a id="chapter14_verse34"></a><b><sup>34 </sup></b>And they got across and came to land in Gen·nes′a·ret.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter14_verse35"></a><b><sup>35 </sup></b>Upon recognizing him the men of that place sent forth into all that surrounding country, and people brought him all those who were ill. <a id="chapter14_verse36"></a><b><sup>36 </sup></b>And they went entreating him that they might just touch the fringe of his outer garment; and all those who touched it were made completely well.</p>
</body>
</html>
