<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="application/xhtml+xml; charset=utf-8" />
<title>Matthew 3</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/bi12.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
<p class="w_biblebookname">Matthew</p><p class="sb"><a id="chapter3"></a><a id="chapter3_verse1"></a><span class="w_ch"><b>3 </b></span>In those days John the Baptist came preaching in the wilderness of Ju·de′a, <a id="chapter3_verse2"></a><b><sup>2 </sup></b>saying: “R<span class="smcap">EPENT</span>, for the kingdom of the heavens has drawn near.” <a id="chapter3_verse3"></a><b><sup>3 </sup></b>This, in fact, is the one spoken of through Isaiah the prophet in these words: “Listen! Someone is crying out in the wilderness, ‘Prepare the way of Jehovah, <span class="smcap">YOU </span>people! Make his roads straight.’” <a id="chapter3_verse4"></a><b><sup>4 </sup></b>But this very John had his clothing of camel’s hair and a leather girdle around his loins; his food too was insect locusts and wild honey. <a id="chapter3_verse5"></a><b><sup>5 </sup></b>Then Jerusalem and all Ju·de′a and all the country around the Jordan made their way out to him, <a id="chapter3_verse6"></a><b><sup>6 </sup></b>and people were baptized by him in the Jordan River, openly confessing their sins.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter3_verse7"></a><b><sup>7 </sup></b>When he caught sight of many of the Pharisees and Sadducees coming to the baptism, he said to them: “Y<span class="smcap">OU </span>offspring of vipers, who has intimated to <span class="smcap">YOU </span>to flee from the coming wrath? <a id="chapter3_verse8"></a><b><sup>8 </sup></b>So then produce fruit that befits repentance; <a id="chapter3_verse9"></a><b><sup>9 </sup></b>and do not presume to say to yourselves, ‘As a father we have Abraham.’ For I say to <span class="smcap">YOU </span>that God is able to raise up children to Abraham from these stones. <a id="chapter3_verse10"></a><b><sup>10 </sup></b>Already the ax is lying at the root of the trees; every tree, then, that does not produce fine fruit is to be cut down and thrown into the fire. <a id="chapter3_verse11"></a><b><sup>11 </sup></b>I, for my part, baptize <span class="smcap">YOU </span>with water because of <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>repentance; but the one coming after me is stronger than I am, whose sandals I am not fit to take off. That one will baptize <span class="smcap">YOU </span>people with holy spirit and with fire. <a id="chapter3_verse12"></a><b><sup>12 </sup></b>His winnowing shovel is in his hand, and he will completely clean up his threshing floor, and will gather his wheat into the storehouse, but the chaff he will burn up with fire that cannot be put out.”</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter3_verse13"></a><b><sup>13 </sup></b>Then Jesus came from Gal′i·lee to the Jordan to John, in order to be baptized by him. <a id="chapter3_verse14"></a><b><sup>14 </sup></b>But the latter tried to prevent him, saying: “I am the one needing to be baptized by you, and are you coming to me?” <a id="chapter3_verse15"></a><b><sup>15 </sup></b>In reply Jesus said to him: “Let it be, this time, for in that way it is suitable for us to carry out all that is righteous.” Then he quit preventing him. <a id="chapter3_verse16"></a><b><sup>16 </sup></b>After being baptized Jesus immediately came up from the water; and, look! the heavens were opened up, and he saw descending like a dove God’s spirit <a id="page1219"></a>coming upon him. <a id="chapter3_verse17"></a><b><sup>17 </sup></b>Look! Also, there was a voice from the heavens that said: “This is my Son, the beloved, whom I have approved.”</p>
</body>
</html>
