<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="application/xhtml+xml; charset=utf-8" />
<title>Matthew 11</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/bi12.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
<p class="w_biblebookname">Matthew</p><p class="sb"><a id="chapter11"></a><a id="chapter11_verse1"></a><span class="w_ch"><b>11 </b></span>Now when Jesus had finished giving instructions to his twelve disciples, he set out from there to teach and preach in their cities.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter11_verse2"></a><b><sup>2 </sup></b>But John, having heard in jail about the works of the Christ, sent by means of his own disciples <a id="chapter11_verse3"></a><b><sup>3 </sup></b>and said to him: “Are you the Coming One, or are we to expect a different one?” <a id="chapter11_verse4"></a><b><sup>4 </sup></b>In reply Jesus said to them: “Go <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>way and report to John what <span class="smcap">YOU </span>are hearing and seeing: <a id="chapter11_verse5"></a><b><sup>5 </sup></b>The blind are seeing again, and the lame are walking about, the lepers are being cleansed and the deaf are hearing, and the dead are being <a id="page1229"></a>raised up, and the poor are having the good news declared to them; <a id="chapter11_verse6"></a><b><sup>6 </sup></b>and happy is he that finds no cause for stumbling in me.”</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter11_verse7"></a><b><sup>7 </sup></b>While these were on their way, Jesus started to say to the crowds respecting John: “What did <span class="smcap">YOU </span>go out into the wilderness to behold? A reed being tossed by a wind? <a id="chapter11_verse8"></a><b><sup>8 </sup></b>What, then, did <span class="smcap">YOU </span>go out to see? A man dressed in soft garments? Why, those wearing soft garments are in the houses of kings. <a id="chapter11_verse9"></a><b><sup>9 </sup></b>Really, then, why did <span class="smcap">YOU </span>go out? To see a prophet? Yes, I tell <span class="smcap">YOU</span>, and far more than a prophet. <a id="chapter11_verse10"></a><b><sup>10 </sup></b>This is he concerning whom it is written, ‘Look! I myself am sending forth my messenger before your face, who will prepare your way ahead of you!’ <a id="chapter11_verse11"></a><b><sup>11 </sup></b>Truly I say to <span class="smcap">YOU </span>people, Among those born of women there has not been raised up a greater than John the Baptist; but a person that is a lesser one in the kingdom of the heavens is greater than he is. <a id="chapter11_verse12"></a><b><sup>12 </sup></b>But from the days of John the Baptist until now the kingdom of the heavens is the goal toward which men press, and those pressing forward are seizing it. <a id="chapter11_verse13"></a><b><sup>13 </sup></b>For all, the Prophets and the Law, prophesied until John; <a id="chapter11_verse14"></a><b><sup>14 </sup></b>and if <span class="smcap">YOU </span>want to accept it, He himself is ‘E·li′jah who is destined to come.’ <a id="chapter11_verse15"></a><b><sup>15 </sup></b>Let him that has ears listen.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter11_verse16"></a><b><sup>16 </sup></b>“With whom shall I compare this generation? It is like young children sitting in the marketplaces who cry out to their playmates, <a id="chapter11_verse17"></a><b><sup>17 </sup></b>saying, ‘We played the flute for <span class="smcap">YOU</span>, but <span class="smcap">YOU </span>did not dance; we wailed, but <span class="smcap">YOU </span>did not beat yourselves in grief.’ <a id="chapter11_verse18"></a><b><sup>18 </sup></b>Correspondingly, John came neither eating nor drinking, yet people say, ‘He has a demon’; <a id="chapter11_verse19"></a><b><sup>19 </sup></b>the Son of man did come eating and drinking, still people say, ‘Look! A man gluttonous and given to drinking wine, a friend of tax collectors and sinners.’ All the same, wisdom is proved righteous by its works.”</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter11_verse20"></a><b><sup>20 </sup></b>Then he started to reproach the cities in which most of his powerful works had taken place, because they did not repent: <a id="chapter11_verse21"></a><b><sup>21 </sup></b>“Woe to you, Cho·ra′zin! Woe to you, Beth·sa′i·da! because if the powerful works had taken place in Tyre and Si′don that took place in <span class="smcap">YOU</span>, they would long ago have repented in sackcloth and ashes. <a id="chapter11_verse22"></a><b><sup>22 </sup></b>Consequently I say to <span class="smcap">YOU</span>, It will be more endurable for Tyre and Si′don on Judgment Day than for <span class="smcap">YOU</span>. <a id="chapter11_verse23"></a><b><sup>23 </sup></b>And you, Ca·per′na·um, will you perhaps be exalted to heaven? Down to Ha′des you will come; because if the powerful works that took place in you had taken place in Sod′om, it would have remained until this very day. <a id="chapter11_verse24"></a><b><sup>24 </sup></b>Consequently I say to <span class="smcap">YOU </span>people, It will be more endurable for the land of Sod′om on Judgment Day than for you.”</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter11_verse25"></a><b><sup>25 </sup></b>At that time Jesus said in response: “I publicly praise you, Father, Lord of heaven and earth, because you have hidden these things from the wise and intellectual ones and have revealed them to babes. <a id="chapter11_verse26"></a><b><sup>26 </sup></b>Yes, O Father, because to do thus came to be the way approved by you. <a id="chapter11_verse27"></a><b><sup>27 </sup></b>All things have been delivered to me by my Father, and no one fully knows the Son but the Father, neither does anyone fully know the Father but the Son and anyone to whom the Son is willing to reveal him. <a id="chapter11_verse28"></a><b><sup>28 </sup></b>Come to me, all <span class="smcap">YOU </span>who are toiling and loaded down, and I will refresh <span class="smcap">YOU</span>. <a id="chapter11_verse29"></a><b><sup>29 </sup></b>Take my yoke upon <span class="smcap">YOU </span>and learn from me, for I am mild-tempered and lowly in heart, and <span class="smcap">YOU </span>will find refreshment for <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>souls. <a id="chapter11_verse30"></a><b><sup>30 </sup></b>For my yoke is kindly and my load is light.”</p>
</body>
</html>
