<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="application/xhtml+xml; charset=utf-8" />
<title>Matthew 25</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/bi12.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
<p class="w_biblebookname">Matthew</p><p class="sb"><a id="chapter25"></a><a id="chapter25_verse1"></a><span class="w_ch"><b>25 </b></span>“Then the kingdom of the heavens will become like ten virgins that took their lamps and went out to meet the bridegroom. <a id="chapter25_verse2"></a><b><sup>2 </sup></b>Five of them were foolish, and five were discreet. <a id="chapter25_verse3"></a><b><sup>3 </sup></b>For the foolish took their lamps but took no oil with them, <a id="chapter25_verse4"></a><b><sup>4 </sup></b>whereas the discreet took oil in their receptacles with their lamps. <a id="chapter25_verse5"></a><b><sup>5 </sup></b>While the bridegroom was delaying, they all nodded and went to sleep. <a id="chapter25_verse6"></a><b><sup>6 </sup></b>Right in the middle of the night there arose a cry, ‘Here is the bridegroom! Be on <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>way out to meet him.’ <a id="chapter25_verse7"></a><b><sup>7 </sup></b>Then all those virgins rose and put their lamps in order. <a id="chapter25_verse8"></a><b><sup>8 </sup></b>The foolish said to the discreet, ‘Give us some of <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>oil, because our lamps are about to go out.’ <a id="chapter25_verse9"></a><b><sup>9 </sup></b>The discreet answered with the words, ‘Perhaps there may not be quite enough for us and <span class="smcap">YOU</span>. Be on <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>way, instead, to those who sell it and buy for yourselves.’ <a id="chapter25_verse10"></a><b><sup>10 </sup></b>While they were going off to buy, the bridegroom arrived, and the virgins that were ready went in with him to the marriage feast; and the door was shut. <a id="chapter25_verse11"></a><b><sup>11 </sup></b>Afterwards the rest of the virgins also came, saying, ‘Sir, sir, open to us!’ <a id="chapter25_verse12"></a><b><sup>12 </sup></b>In answer he said, ‘I tell <span class="smcap">YOU </span>the truth, I do not know <span class="smcap">YOU</span>.’</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter25_verse13"></a><b><sup>13 </sup></b>“Keep on the watch, therefore, because <span class="smcap">YOU </span>know neither the day nor the hour.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter25_verse14"></a><b><sup>14 </sup></b>“For it is just as when a man, about to travel abroad, summoned slaves of his and committed to them his belongings. <a id="chapter25_verse15"></a><b><sup>15 </sup></b>And to one he gave five talents, to another two, to still another one, to each one according to his own ability, and he went abroad. <a id="chapter25_verse16"></a><b><sup>16 </sup></b>Immediately the one that received the five talents went his way and did business with them and gained five more. <a id="chapter25_verse17"></a><b><sup>17 </sup></b>In the same way the one that received the two gained two more. <a id="chapter25_verse18"></a><b><sup>18 </sup></b>But the one that received just one went off, and dug in the ground and hid the silver money of his master.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter25_verse19"></a><b><sup>19 </sup></b>“After a long time the master of those slaves came and settled accounts with them. <a id="chapter25_verse20"></a><b><sup>20 </sup></b>So the one that had received five talents came forward and brought five additional talents, saying, ‘Master, you committed five talents to me; see, I gained five talents more.’ <a id="chapter25_verse21"></a><b><sup>21 </sup></b>His master said to him, ‘Well done, good and faithful slave! You were faithful over a few things. I will <a id="page1250"></a>appoint you over many things. Enter into the joy of your master.’ <a id="chapter25_verse22"></a><b><sup>22 </sup></b>Next the one that had received the two talents came forward and said, ‘Master, you committed to me two talents; see, I gained two talents more.’ <a id="chapter25_verse23"></a><b><sup>23 </sup></b>His master said to him, ‘Well done, good and faithful slave! You were faithful over a few things. I will appoint you over many things. Enter into the joy of your master.’</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter25_verse24"></a><b><sup>24 </sup></b>“Finally the one that had received the one talent came forward and said, ‘Master, I knew you to be an exacting man, reaping where you did not sow and gathering where you did not winnow. <a id="chapter25_verse25"></a><b><sup>25 </sup></b>So I grew afraid and went off and hid your talent in the ground. Here you have what is yours.’ <a id="chapter25_verse26"></a><b><sup>26 </sup></b>In reply his master said to him, ‘Wicked and sluggish slave, you knew, did you, that I reaped where I did not sow and gathered where I did not winnow? <a id="chapter25_verse27"></a><b><sup>27 </sup></b>Well, then, you ought to have deposited my silver monies with the bankers, and on my arrival I would be receiving what is mine with interest.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter25_verse28"></a><b><sup>28 </sup></b>“‘Therefore <span class="smcap">TAKE </span>away the talent from him and give it to him that has the ten talents. <a id="chapter25_verse29"></a><b><sup>29 </sup></b>For to everyone that has, more will be given and he will have abundance; but as for him that does not have, even what he has will be taken away from him. <a id="chapter25_verse30"></a><b><sup>30 </sup></b>And throw the good-for-nothing slave out into the darkness outside. There is where his weeping and the gnashing of his teeth will be.’</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter25_verse31"></a><b><sup>31 </sup></b>“When the Son of man arrives in his glory, and all the angels with him, then he will sit down on his glorious throne. <a id="chapter25_verse32"></a><b><sup>32 </sup></b>And all the nations will be gathered before him, and he will separate people one from another, just as a shepherd separates the sheep from the goats. <a id="chapter25_verse33"></a><b><sup>33 </sup></b>And he will put the sheep on his right hand, but the goats on his left.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter25_verse34"></a><b><sup>34 </sup></b>“Then the king will say to those on his right, ‘Come, <span class="smcap">YOU </span>who have been blessed by my Father, inherit the kingdom prepared for <span class="smcap">YOU </span>from the founding of the world. <a id="chapter25_verse35"></a><b><sup>35 </sup></b>For I became hungry and <span class="smcap">YOU </span>gave me something to eat; I got thirsty and <span class="smcap">YOU </span>gave me something to drink. I was a stranger and <span class="smcap">YOU </span>received me hospitably; <a id="chapter25_verse36"></a><b><sup>36 </sup></b>naked, and <span class="smcap">YOU </span>clothed me. I fell sick and <span class="smcap">YOU </span>looked after me. I was in prison and <span class="smcap">YOU </span>came to me.’ <a id="chapter25_verse37"></a><b><sup>37 </sup></b>Then the righteous ones will answer him with the words, ‘Lord, when did we see you hungry and feed you, or thirsty, and give you something to drink? <a id="chapter25_verse38"></a><b><sup>38 </sup></b>When did we see you a stranger and receive you hospitably, or naked, and clothe you? <a id="chapter25_verse39"></a><b><sup>39 </sup></b>When did we see you sick or in prison and go to you?’ <a id="chapter25_verse40"></a><b><sup>40 </sup></b>And in reply the king will say to them, ‘Truly I say to <span class="smcap">YOU</span>, To the extent that <span class="smcap">YOU </span>did it to one of the least of these my brothers, <span class="smcap">YOU </span>did it to me.’</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter25_verse41"></a><b><sup>41 </sup></b>“Then he will say, in turn, to those on his left, ‘Be on <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>way from me, <span class="smcap">YOU </span>who have been cursed, into the everlasting fire prepared for the Devil and his angels. <a id="chapter25_verse42"></a><b><sup>42 </sup></b>For I became hungry, but <span class="smcap">YOU </span>gave me nothing to eat, and I got thirsty, but <span class="smcap">YOU </span>gave me nothing to drink. <a id="chapter25_verse43"></a><b><sup>43 </sup></b>I was a stranger, but <span class="smcap">YOU </span>did not receive me hospitably; naked, but <span class="smcap">YOU </span>did not clothe me; sick and in prison, but <span class="smcap">YOU </span>did not look after me.’ <a id="chapter25_verse44"></a><b><sup>44 </sup></b>Then they also will answer with the words, ‘Lord, when did we see you hungry or thirsty or a stranger or naked or sick or in prison and did not minister to you?’ <a id="chapter25_verse45"></a><b><sup>45 </sup></b>Then he will answer them with the words, ‘Truly I say to <span class="smcap">YOU</span>, To the extent that <span class="smcap">YOU </span>did not do it to one of these least ones, <span class="smcap">YOU </span>did not do it to <a id="page1251"></a>me.’ <a id="chapter25_verse46"></a><b><sup>46 </sup></b>And these will depart into everlasting cutting-off, but the righteous ones into everlasting life.”</p>
</body>
</html>
