<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="application/xhtml+xml; charset=utf-8" />
<title>Matthew 16</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/bi12.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
<p class="w_biblebookname">Matthew</p><p class="sb"><a id="chapter16"></a><a id="chapter16_verse1"></a><span class="w_ch"><b>16 </b></span>Here the Pharisees and Sadducees approached him and, to tempt him, they asked him to display to them a sign from heaven. <a id="chapter16_verse2"></a><b><sup>2 </sup></b>In reply he said to them: “[[When evening falls <span class="smcap">YOU </span>are accustomed to say, ‘It will be fair weather, for the sky is fire-red’; <a id="chapter16_verse3"></a><b><sup>3 </sup></b>and at morning, ‘It will be wintry, rainy weather today, for the sky is fire-red, but gloomy-looking.’ Y<span class="smcap">OU </span>know how to interpret the appearance of the sky, but the signs of the times <span class="smcap">YOU </span>cannot interpret.]] <a id="chapter16_verse4"></a><b><sup>4 </sup></b>A wicked and adulterous generation keeps on seeking for a sign, but no sign will be given it except the sign of Jo′nah.” <a id="page1237"></a>With that he went away, leaving them behind.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter16_verse5"></a><b><sup>5 </sup></b>Now the disciples crossed to the other side and forgot to take loaves along. <a id="chapter16_verse6"></a><b><sup>6 </sup></b>Jesus said to them: “Keep <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>eyes open and watch out for the leaven of the Pharisees and Sadducees.” <a id="chapter16_verse7"></a><b><sup>7 </sup></b>So they began to reason among themselves, saying: “We did not take any loaves along.” <a id="chapter16_verse8"></a><b><sup>8 </sup></b>Knowing this, Jesus said: “Why are <span class="smcap">YOU </span>doing this reasoning among yourselves, because <span class="smcap">YOU </span>have no loaves, <span class="smcap">YOU </span>with little faith? <a id="chapter16_verse9"></a><b><sup>9 </sup></b>Do <span class="smcap">YOU </span>not yet see the point, or do <span class="smcap">YOU </span>not remember the five loaves in the case of the five thousand and how many baskets <span class="smcap">YOU </span>took up? <a id="chapter16_verse10"></a><b><sup>10 </sup></b>Or the seven loaves in the case of the four thousand and how many provision baskets <span class="smcap">YOU </span>took up? <a id="chapter16_verse11"></a><b><sup>11 </sup></b>How is it <span class="smcap">YOU </span>do not discern that I did not talk to <span class="smcap">YOU </span>about loaves? But watch out for the leaven of the Pharisees and Sadducees.” <a id="chapter16_verse12"></a><b><sup>12 </sup></b>Then they grasped that he said to watch out, not for the leaven of the loaves, but for the teaching of the Pharisees and Sadducees.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter16_verse13"></a><b><sup>13 </sup></b>Now when he had come into the parts of Caes·a·re′a Phi·lip′pi, Jesus went asking his disciples: “Who are men saying the Son of man is?” <a id="chapter16_verse14"></a><b><sup>14 </sup></b>They said: “Some say John the Baptist, others E·li′jah, still others Jeremiah or one of the prophets.” <a id="chapter16_verse15"></a><b><sup>15 </sup></b>He said to them: “Y<span class="smcap">OU</span>, though, who do <span class="smcap">YOU </span>say I am?” <a id="chapter16_verse16"></a><b><sup>16 </sup></b>In answer Simon Peter said: “You are the Christ, the Son of the living God.” <a id="chapter16_verse17"></a><b><sup>17 </sup></b>In response Jesus said to him: “Happy you are, Simon son of Jo′nah, because flesh and blood did not reveal it to you, but my Father who is in the heavens did. <a id="chapter16_verse18"></a><b><sup>18 </sup></b>Also, I say to you, You are Peter, and on this rock-mass I will build my congregation, and the gates of Ha′des will not overpower it. <a id="chapter16_verse19"></a><b><sup>19 </sup></b>I will give you the keys of the kingdom of the heavens, and whatever you may bind on earth will be the thing bound in the heavens, and whatever you may loose on earth will be the thing loosed in the heavens.” <a id="chapter16_verse20"></a><b><sup>20 </sup></b>Then he sternly charged the disciples not to say to anybody that he was the Christ.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter16_verse21"></a><b><sup>21 </sup></b>From that time forward Jesus Christ commenced showing his disciples that he must go to Jerusalem and suffer many things from the older men and chief priests and scribes, and be killed, and on the third day be raised up. <a id="chapter16_verse22"></a><b><sup>22 </sup></b>At this Peter took him aside and commenced rebuking him, saying: “Be kind to yourself, Lord; you will not have this destiny at all.” <a id="chapter16_verse23"></a><b><sup>23 </sup></b>But, turning his back, he said to Peter: “Get behind me, Satan! You are a stumbling block to me, because you think, not God’s thoughts, but those of men.”</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter16_verse24"></a><b><sup>24 </sup></b>Then Jesus said to his disciples: “If anyone wants to come after me, let him disown himself and pick up his torture stake and continually follow me. <a id="chapter16_verse25"></a><b><sup>25 </sup></b>For whoever wants to save his soul will lose it; but whoever loses his soul for my sake will find it. <a id="chapter16_verse26"></a><b><sup>26 </sup></b>For what benefit will it be to a man if he gains the whole world but forfeits his soul? or what will a man give in exchange for his soul? <a id="chapter16_verse27"></a><b><sup>27 </sup></b>For the Son of man is destined to come in the glory of his Father with his angels, and then he will recompense each one according to his behavior. <a id="chapter16_verse28"></a><b><sup>28 </sup></b>Truly I say to <span class="smcap">YOU </span>that there are some of those standing here that will not taste death at all until first they see the Son of man coming in his kingdom.”</p>
</body>
</html>
