<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="application/xhtml+xml; charset=utf-8" />
<title>Mark 13</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/bi12.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
<p class="w_biblebookname">Mark</p><p class="sb"><a id="chapter13"></a><a id="chapter13_verse1"></a><span class="w_ch"><b>13 </b></span>As he was going out of the temple one of his disciples said to him: “Teacher, see! what sort of stones and what sort of buildings!” <a id="chapter13_verse2"></a><b><sup>2 </sup></b>However, Jesus said to him: “Do you behold these great buildings? By no means will a stone be left here upon a stone and not be thrown down.”</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter13_verse3"></a><b><sup>3 </sup></b>And as he was sitting on the Mount of Olives with the temple in view, Peter and James and John and Andrew began to ask him privately: <a id="chapter13_verse4"></a><b><sup>4 </sup></b>“Tell us, When will these things be, and what will be the sign when all these things are destined to come to a conclusion?” <a id="chapter13_verse5"></a><b><sup>5 </sup></b>So Jesus started to say to them: “Look out that nobody misleads <span class="smcap">YOU</span>. <a id="chapter13_verse6"></a><b><sup>6 </sup></b>Many will come on the basis of my name, saying, ‘I am he,’ and will mislead many. <a id="chapter13_verse7"></a><b><sup>7 </sup></b>Moreover, when <span class="smcap">YOU </span>hear of wars and reports of wars, do not be terrified; these things must take place, but the end is not yet.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter13_verse8"></a><b><sup>8 </sup></b>“For nation will rise against nation and kingdom against kingdom, there will be earthquakes in one place after another, there will be food shortages. These are a beginning of pangs of distress.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter13_verse9"></a><b><sup>9 </sup></b>“As for <span class="smcap">YOU</span>, look out for yourselves; people will deliver <span class="smcap">YOU </span>up to local courts, and <span class="smcap">YOU </span>will be beaten in synagogues and be put on the stand before governors and kings for my sake, for a witness to them. <a id="chapter13_verse10"></a><b><sup>10 </sup></b>Also, in all the nations the good news has to be preached first. <a id="chapter13_verse11"></a><b><sup>11 </sup></b>But when they are leading <span class="smcap">YOU </span>along to deliver <span class="smcap">YOU </span>up, do not be anxious beforehand about what to speak; but whatever is given <span class="smcap">YOU </span>in that hour, speak this, for <span class="smcap">YOU </span>are not the ones speaking, but the holy spirit is. <a id="chapter13_verse12"></a><b><sup>12 </sup></b>Furthermore, brother will deliver brother over to death, and a father a child, and children will rise up against parents and have them put to death; <a id="chapter13_verse13"></a><b><sup>13 </sup></b>and <span class="smcap">YOU </span>will be objects of hatred by all people on account of my name. But he that has endured to the end is the one that will be saved.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter13_verse14"></a><b><sup>14 </sup></b>“However, when <span class="smcap">YOU </span>catch sight of the disgusting thing that causes desolation standing where it ought not (let the reader use discernment), then let those in Ju·de′a begin fleeing to the mountains. <a id="chapter13_verse15"></a><b><sup>15 </sup></b>Let the man on the housetop not come down, nor go inside to take anything <a id="page1277"></a>out of his house; <a id="chapter13_verse16"></a><b><sup>16 </sup></b>and let the man in the field not return to the things behind to pick up his outer garment. <a id="chapter13_verse17"></a><b><sup>17 </sup></b>Woe to the pregnant women and those suckling a baby in those days! <a id="chapter13_verse18"></a><b><sup>18 </sup></b>Keep praying that it may not occur in wintertime; <a id="chapter13_verse19"></a><b><sup>19 </sup></b>for those days will be days of a tribulation such as has not occurred from the beginning of the creation which God created until that time, and will not occur again. <a id="chapter13_verse20"></a><b><sup>20 </sup></b>In fact, unless Jehovah had cut short the days, no flesh would be saved. But on account of the chosen ones whom he has chosen he has cut short the days.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter13_verse21"></a><b><sup>21 </sup></b>“Then, too, if anyone says to <span class="smcap">YOU</span>, ‘See! Here is the Christ,’ ‘See! There he is,’ do not believe it. <a id="chapter13_verse22"></a><b><sup>22 </sup></b>For false Christs and false prophets will arise and will give signs and wonders to lead astray, if possible, the chosen ones. <a id="chapter13_verse23"></a><b><sup>23 </sup></b>Y<span class="smcap">OU</span>, then, watch out; I have told <span class="smcap">YOU </span>all things beforehand.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter13_verse24"></a><b><sup>24 </sup></b>“But in those days, after that tribulation, the sun will be darkened, and the moon will not give its light, <a id="chapter13_verse25"></a><b><sup>25 </sup></b>and the stars will be falling out of heaven, and the powers that are in the heavens will be shaken. <a id="chapter13_verse26"></a><b><sup>26 </sup></b>And then they will see the Son of man coming in clouds with great power and glory. <a id="chapter13_verse27"></a><b><sup>27 </sup></b>And then he will send forth the angels and will gather his chosen ones together from the four winds, from earth’s extremity to heaven’s extremity.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter13_verse28"></a><b><sup>28 </sup></b>“Now from the fig tree learn the illustration: Just as soon as its young branch grows tender and puts forth its leaves, <span class="smcap">YOU </span>know that summer is near. <a id="chapter13_verse29"></a><b><sup>29 </sup></b>Likewise also <span class="smcap">YOU</span>, when <span class="smcap">YOU </span>see these things happening, know that he is near, at the doors. <a id="chapter13_verse30"></a><b><sup>30 </sup></b>Truly I say to <span class="smcap">YOU </span>that this generation will by no means pass away until all these things happen. <a id="chapter13_verse31"></a><b><sup>31 </sup></b>Heaven and earth will pass away, but my words will not pass away.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter13_verse32"></a><b><sup>32 </sup></b>“Concerning that day or the hour nobody knows, neither the angels in heaven nor the Son, but the Father. <a id="chapter13_verse33"></a><b><sup>33 </sup></b>Keep looking, keep awake, for <span class="smcap">YOU </span>do not know when the appointed time is. <a id="chapter13_verse34"></a><b><sup>34 </sup></b>It is like a man traveling abroad that left his house and gave the authority to his slaves, to each one his work, and commanded the doorkeeper to keep on the watch. <a id="chapter13_verse35"></a><b><sup>35 </sup></b>Therefore keep on the watch, for <span class="smcap">YOU </span>do not know when the master of the house is coming, whether late in the day or at midnight or at cockcrowing or early in the morning; <a id="chapter13_verse36"></a><b><sup>36 </sup></b>in order that when he arrives suddenly, he does not find <span class="smcap">YOU </span>sleeping. <a id="chapter13_verse37"></a><b><sup>37 </sup></b>But what I say to <span class="smcap">YOU </span>I say to all, Keep on the watch.”</p>
</body>
</html>
