<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="application/xhtml+xml; charset=utf-8" />
<title>Luke 22</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/bi12.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
<p class="w_biblebookname">Luke</p><p class="sb"><a id="chapter22"></a><a id="chapter22_verse1"></a><span class="w_ch"><b>22 </b></span>Now the festival of the unfermented cakes, the so-called Passover, was getting near. <a id="chapter22_verse2"></a><b><sup>2 </sup></b>Also, the chief priests and the scribes were seeking the effective way for them to get rid of him, for they were in fear of the people. <a id="chapter22_verse3"></a><b><sup>3 </sup></b>But Satan entered into Judas, the one called Is·car′i·ot, who was numbered among the twelve; <a id="chapter22_verse4"></a><b><sup>4 </sup></b>and he went off and talked with the chief priests and temple captains about the effective way to betray him to them. <a id="chapter22_verse5"></a><b><sup>5 </sup></b>Well, they rejoiced and agreed to give him silver money. <a id="chapter22_verse6"></a><b><sup>6 </sup></b>So he consented, and he began to seek a good opportunity to betray him to them without a crowd around.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter22_verse7"></a><b><sup>7 </sup></b>The day of the unfermented cakes now arrived, on which the passover victim must be sacrificed; <a id="chapter22_verse8"></a><b><sup>8 </sup></b>and he dispatched Peter and John, saying: “Go and get the passover ready for us to eat.” <a id="chapter22_verse9"></a><b><sup>9 </sup></b>They said to him: “Where do you want us to get it ready?” <a id="chapter22_verse10"></a><b><sup>10 </sup></b>He said to them: “Look! When <span class="smcap">YOU </span>enter into the city a man carrying an earthenware vessel of water will meet <span class="smcap">YOU</span>. Follow him into the house into which he enters. <a id="chapter22_verse11"></a><b><sup>11 </sup></b>And <span class="smcap">YOU </span>must say to the landlord of the house, ‘The Teacher says to you: “Where is the guest room in which I may eat the passover with my disciples?”’ <a id="chapter22_verse12"></a><b><sup>12 </sup></b>And that man will show <span class="smcap">YOU </span>a large upper room furnished. Get it ready there.” <a id="chapter22_verse13"></a><b><sup>13 </sup></b>So they departed and found it just as he had said to them, and they got the passover ready.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter22_verse14"></a><b><sup>14 </sup></b>At length when the hour came, he reclined at the table, and the apostles with him. <a id="chapter22_verse15"></a><b><sup>15 </sup></b>And he said to them: “I have greatly desired to eat this passover with <span class="smcap">YOU </span>before I suffer; <a id="chapter22_verse16"></a><b><sup>16 </sup></b>for I tell <span class="smcap">YOU</span>, I will not eat it again until it becomes fulfilled in the kingdom of God.” <a id="chapter22_verse17"></a><b><sup>17 </sup></b>And, accepting a cup, he gave thanks and said: “Take this and pass it from one to the other among yourselves; <a id="chapter22_verse18"></a><b><sup>18 </sup></b>for I tell <span class="smcap">YOU</span>, From now on I will not drink again from the product of the vine until the kingdom of God arrives.”</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter22_verse19"></a><b><sup>19 </sup></b>Also, he took a loaf, gave thanks, broke it, and gave it to them, saying: “This means my body which is to be given in <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>behalf. Keep doing this in remembrance of me.” <a id="chapter22_verse20"></a><b><sup>20 </sup></b>Also, the cup in the same way after they had the evening meal, he saying: “This cup means the new covenant by virtue of my blood, which is to be poured out in <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>behalf.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter22_verse21"></a><b><sup>21 </sup></b>“But, look! the hand of my betrayer is with me at the table. <a id="chapter22_verse22"></a><b><sup>22 </sup></b>Because the Son of man is going his way according to what is marked out; all the same, woe to that man through whom he is betrayed!” <a id="chapter22_verse23"></a><b><sup>23 </sup></b>So they started to discuss among themselves the question of which of them would really be the one that was about to do this.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter22_verse24"></a><b><sup>24 </sup></b>However, there also arose a heated dispute among them over which one of them seemed to be greatest. <a id="chapter22_verse25"></a><b><sup>25 </sup></b>But he said to them: “The kings of the nations lord it over them, and those having authority over them are called Benefactors. <a id="chapter22_verse26"></a><b><sup>26 </sup></b>Y<span class="smcap">OU</span>, though, are not to be that way. But let him that is the greatest among <span class="smcap">YOU </span>become as the youngest, and the one acting as chief as the one ministering. <a id="chapter22_verse27"></a><b><sup>27 </sup></b>For which one is greater, the one reclining at the table or the one <a id="page1322"></a>ministering? Is it not the one reclining at the table? But I am in <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>midst as the one ministering.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter22_verse28"></a><b><sup>28 </sup></b>“However, <span class="smcap">YOU </span>are the ones that have stuck with me in my trials; <a id="chapter22_verse29"></a><b><sup>29 </sup></b>and I make a covenant with <span class="smcap">YOU</span>, just as my Father has made a covenant with me, for a kingdom, <a id="chapter22_verse30"></a><b><sup>30 </sup></b>that <span class="smcap">YOU </span>may eat and drink at my table in my kingdom, and sit on thrones to judge the twelve tribes of Israel.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter22_verse31"></a><b><sup>31 </sup></b>“Simon, Simon, look! Satan has demanded to have <span class="smcap">YOU </span>men to sift <span class="smcap">YOU </span>as wheat. <a id="chapter22_verse32"></a><b><sup>32 </sup></b>But I have made supplication for you that your faith may not give out; and you, when once you have returned, strengthen your brothers.” <a id="chapter22_verse33"></a><b><sup>33 </sup></b>Then he said to him: “Lord, I am ready to go with you both into prison and into death.” <a id="chapter22_verse34"></a><b><sup>34 </sup></b>But he said: “I tell you, Peter, A cock will not crow today until you have three times denied knowing me.”</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter22_verse35"></a><b><sup>35 </sup></b>He also said to them: “When I sent <span class="smcap">YOU </span>forth without purse and food pouch and sandals, <span class="smcap">YOU </span>did not want for anything, did <span class="smcap">YOU</span>?” They said: “No!” <a id="chapter22_verse36"></a><b><sup>36 </sup></b>Then he said to them: “But now let the one that has a purse take it up, likewise also a food pouch; and let the one having no sword sell his outer garment and buy one. <a id="chapter22_verse37"></a><b><sup>37 </sup></b>For I tell <span class="smcap">YOU </span>that this which is written must be accomplished in me, namely, ‘And he was reckoned with lawless ones.’ For that which concerns me is having an accomplishment.” <a id="chapter22_verse38"></a><b><sup>38 </sup></b>Then they said: “Lord, look! here are two swords.” He said to them: “It is enough.”</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter22_verse39"></a><b><sup>39 </sup></b>On going out he went as customarily to the Mount of Olives; and the disciples also followed him. <a id="chapter22_verse40"></a><b><sup>40 </sup></b>Having come to the place he said to them: “Carry on prayer, that <span class="smcap">YOU </span>do not enter into temptation.” <a id="chapter22_verse41"></a><b><sup>41 </sup></b>And he himself drew away from them about a stone’s throw, and bent his knees and began to pray, <a id="chapter22_verse42"></a><b><sup>42 </sup></b>saying: “Father, if you wish, remove this cup from me. Nevertheless, let, not my will, but yours take place.” <a id="chapter22_verse43"></a><b><sup>43 </sup></b>Then an angel from heaven appeared to him and strengthened him. <a id="chapter22_verse44"></a><b><sup>44 </sup></b>But getting into an agony he continued praying more earnestly; and his sweat became as drops of blood falling to the ground. <a id="chapter22_verse45"></a><b><sup>45 </sup></b>And he rose from prayer, went to the disciples and found them slumbering from grief; <a id="chapter22_verse46"></a><b><sup>46 </sup></b>and he said to them: “Why are <span class="smcap">YOU </span>sleeping? Rise and carry on prayer, that <span class="smcap">YOU </span>do not enter into temptation.”</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter22_verse47"></a><b><sup>47 </sup></b>While he was yet speaking, look! a crowd, and the man called Judas, one of the twelve, was going before them; and he approached Jesus to kiss him. <a id="chapter22_verse48"></a><b><sup>48 </sup></b>But Jesus said to him: “Judas, do you betray the Son of man with a kiss?” <a id="chapter22_verse49"></a><b><sup>49 </sup></b>When those about him saw what was going to happen, they said: “Lord, shall we strike with the sword?” <a id="chapter22_verse50"></a><b><sup>50 </sup></b>A certain one of them even did strike the slave of the high priest and took off his right ear. <a id="chapter22_verse51"></a><b><sup>51 </sup></b>But in reply Jesus said: “L<span class="smcap">ET </span>it go as far as this.” And he touched the ear and healed him. <a id="chapter22_verse52"></a><b><sup>52 </sup></b>Jesus then said to the chief priests and captains of the temple and older men that had come there for him: “Did <span class="smcap">YOU </span>come out with swords and clubs as against a robber? <a id="chapter22_verse53"></a><b><sup>53 </sup></b>While I was with <span class="smcap">YOU </span>in the temple day after day <span class="smcap">YOU </span>did not stretch out <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>hands against me. But this is <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>hour and the authority of darkness.”</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter22_verse54"></a><b><sup>54 </sup></b>Then they arrested him and led him off and brought him into the house of the high priest; but Peter was following <a id="page1323"></a>at a distance. <a id="chapter22_verse55"></a><b><sup>55 </sup></b>When they lit a fire in the midst of the courtyard and sat down together, Peter was sitting in among them. <a id="chapter22_verse56"></a><b><sup>56 </sup></b>But a certain servant girl saw him sitting by the bright fire and looked him over and said: “This man also was with him.” <a id="chapter22_verse57"></a><b><sup>57 </sup></b>But he denied it, saying: “I do not know him, woman.” <a id="chapter22_verse58"></a><b><sup>58 </sup></b>And after a short time another person seeing him said: “You also are one of them.” But Peter said: “Man, I am not.” <a id="chapter22_verse59"></a><b><sup>59 </sup></b>And after about an hour intervened a certain other man began insisting strongly: “For a certainty this man also was with him; for, in fact, he is a Gal·i·le′an!” <a id="chapter22_verse60"></a><b><sup>60 </sup></b>But Peter said: “Man, I do not know what you are saying.” And instantly, while he was yet speaking, a cock crowed. <a id="chapter22_verse61"></a><b><sup>61 </sup></b>And the Lord turned and looked upon Peter, and Peter recalled the utterance of the Lord when he said to him: “Before a cock crows today you will disown me three times.” <a id="chapter22_verse62"></a><b><sup>62 </sup></b>And he went outside and wept bitterly.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter22_verse63"></a><b><sup>63 </sup></b>Now the men that had him in custody began to make fun of him, hitting him; <a id="chapter22_verse64"></a><b><sup>64 </sup></b>and after covering him over they would ask and say: “Prophesy. Who is it that struck you?” <a id="chapter22_verse65"></a><b><sup>65 </sup></b>And they went on saying many other things in blasphemy against him.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter22_verse66"></a><b><sup>66 </sup></b>At length when it became day, the assembly of older men of the people, both chief priests and scribes, gathered together, and they haled him into their San′he·drin hall, saying: <a id="chapter22_verse67"></a><b><sup>67 </sup></b>“If you are the Christ, tell us.” But he said to them: “Even if I told <span class="smcap">YOU</span>, <span class="smcap">YOU </span>would not believe it at all. <a id="chapter22_verse68"></a><b><sup>68 </sup></b>Moreover, if I questioned <span class="smcap">YOU</span>, <span class="smcap">YOU </span>would not answer at all. <a id="chapter22_verse69"></a><b><sup>69 </sup></b>However, from now on the Son of man will be sitting at the powerful right hand of God.” <a id="chapter22_verse70"></a><b><sup>70 </sup></b>At this they all said: “Are you, therefore, the Son of God?” He said to them: “Y<span class="smcap">OU </span>yourselves are saying that I am.” <a id="chapter22_verse71"></a><b><sup>71 </sup></b>They said: “Why do we need further witness? For we ourselves have heard it out of his own mouth.”</p>
</body>
</html>
