<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="application/xhtml+xml; charset=utf-8" />
<title>Luke 18</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/bi12.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
<p class="w_biblebookname">Luke</p><p class="sb"><a id="chapter18"></a><a id="chapter18_verse1"></a><span class="w_ch"><b>18 </b></span>Then he went on to tell them an illustration with regard to the need for them always to pray and not to give up, <a id="chapter18_verse2"></a><b><sup>2 </sup></b>saying: “In a certain city there was a certain judge that had no fear of God and had no respect for man. <a id="chapter18_verse3"></a><b><sup>3 </sup></b>But there was a widow in that city and she kept going to him, saying, ‘See that I get justice from my adversary at law.’ <a id="chapter18_verse4"></a><b><sup>4 </sup></b>Well, for a while he was unwilling, but afterward he said to himself, ‘Although I do not fear God or respect a man, <a id="chapter18_verse5"></a><b><sup>5 </sup></b>at any rate, because of this widow’s continually making me trouble, I will see that she gets justice, so that she will not keep coming and pummeling me to a finish.’” <a id="chapter18_verse6"></a><b><sup>6 </sup></b>Then the Lord said: “H<span class="smcap">EAR </span>what the judge, although unrighteous, said! <a id="chapter18_verse7"></a><b><sup>7 </sup></b>Certainly, then, shall not God cause justice to be done for his chosen ones who cry out to him day and night, even though he is long-suffering toward them? <a id="chapter18_verse8"></a><b><sup>8 </sup></b>I tell <span class="smcap">YOU</span>, He will cause justice <a id="page1315"></a>to be done to them speedily. Nevertheless, when the Son of man arrives, will he really find the faith on the earth?”</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter18_verse9"></a><b><sup>9 </sup></b>But he spoke this illustration also to some who trusted in themselves that they were righteous and who considered the rest as nothing: <a id="chapter18_verse10"></a><b><sup>10 </sup></b>“Two men went up into the temple to pray, the one a Pharisee and the other a tax collector. <a id="chapter18_verse11"></a><b><sup>11 </sup></b>The Pharisee stood and began to pray these things to himself, ‘O God, I thank you I am not as the rest of men, extortioners, unrighteous, adulterers, or even as this tax collector. <a id="chapter18_verse12"></a><b><sup>12 </sup></b>I fast twice a week, I give the tenth of all things I acquire.’ <a id="chapter18_verse13"></a><b><sup>13 </sup></b>But the tax collector standing at a distance was not willing even to raise his eyes heavenward, but kept beating his breast, saying, ‘O God, be gracious to me a sinner.’ <a id="chapter18_verse14"></a><b><sup>14 </sup></b>I tell <span class="smcap">YOU</span>, This man went down to his home proved more righteous than that man; because everyone that exalts himself will be humiliated, but he that humbles himself will be exalted.”</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter18_verse15"></a><b><sup>15 </sup></b>Now people began to bring him also their infants for him to touch these; but on seeing it the disciples began to reprimand them. <a id="chapter18_verse16"></a><b><sup>16 </sup></b>However, Jesus called the infants to him, saying: “Let the young children come to me, and do not try to stop them. For the kingdom of God belongs to suchlike ones. <a id="chapter18_verse17"></a><b><sup>17 </sup></b>Truly I say to <span class="smcap">YOU</span>, Whoever does not receive the kingdom of God like a young child will by no means get into it.”</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter18_verse18"></a><b><sup>18 </sup></b>And a certain ruler questioned him, saying: “Good Teacher, by doing what shall I inherit everlasting life?” <a id="chapter18_verse19"></a><b><sup>19 </sup></b>Jesus said to him: “Why do you call me good? Nobody is good, except one, God. <a id="chapter18_verse20"></a><b><sup>20 </sup></b>You know the commandments, ‘Do not commit adultery, Do not murder, Do not steal, Do not bear false witness, Honor your father and mother.’” <a id="chapter18_verse21"></a><b><sup>21 </sup></b>Then he said: “All these I have kept from youth on.” <a id="chapter18_verse22"></a><b><sup>22 </sup></b>After hearing that, Jesus said to him: “There is yet one thing lacking about you: Sell all the things you have and distribute to poor people, and you will have treasure in the heavens; and come be my follower.” <a id="chapter18_verse23"></a><b><sup>23 </sup></b>When he heard this, he became deeply grieved, for he was very rich.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter18_verse24"></a><b><sup>24 </sup></b>Jesus looked at him and said: “How difficult a thing it will be for those having money to make their way into the kingdom of God! <a id="chapter18_verse25"></a><b><sup>25 </sup></b>It is easier, in fact, for a camel to get through the eye of a sewing needle than for a rich man to get into the kingdom of God.” <a id="chapter18_verse26"></a><b><sup>26 </sup></b>Those who heard this said: “Who possibly can be saved?” <a id="chapter18_verse27"></a><b><sup>27 </sup></b>He said: “The things impossible with men are possible with God.” <a id="chapter18_verse28"></a><b><sup>28 </sup></b>But Peter said: “Look! We have left our own things and followed you.” <a id="chapter18_verse29"></a><b><sup>29 </sup></b>He said to them: “Truly I say to <span class="smcap">YOU</span>, There is no one who has left house or wife or brothers or parents or children for the sake of the kingdom of God <a id="chapter18_verse30"></a><b><sup>30 </sup></b>who will not in any way get many times more in this period of time, and in the coming system of things everlasting life.”</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter18_verse31"></a><b><sup>31 </sup></b>Then he took the twelve aside and said to them: “Look! We are going up to Jerusalem, and all the things written by means of the prophets as to the Son of man will be completed. <a id="chapter18_verse32"></a><b><sup>32 </sup></b>For instance, he will be delivered up to men of the nations and will be made fun of and be treated insolently and spit upon; <a id="chapter18_verse33"></a><b><sup>33 </sup></b>and after scourging him they will kill him, but on the third day he will rise.” <a id="page1316"></a><a id="chapter18_verse34"></a><b><sup>34 </sup></b>However, they did not get the meaning of any of these things; but this utterance was hidden from them, and they were not knowing the things said.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter18_verse35"></a><b><sup>35 </sup></b>Now as he was getting near to Jer′i·cho a certain blind man was sitting beside the road begging. <a id="chapter18_verse36"></a><b><sup>36 </sup></b>Because he heard a crowd moving through he began to inquire what this might mean. <a id="chapter18_verse37"></a><b><sup>37 </sup></b>They reported to him: “Jesus the Naz·a·rene′ is passing by!” <a id="chapter18_verse38"></a><b><sup>38 </sup></b>At that he cried out, saying: “Jesus, Son of David, have mercy on me!” <a id="chapter18_verse39"></a><b><sup>39 </sup></b>And those going in advance began to tell him sternly to keep quiet, but that much more he kept shouting: “Son of David, have mercy on me.” <a id="chapter18_verse40"></a><b><sup>40 </sup></b>Then Jesus stood still and commanded the man to be led to him. After he got near, Jesus asked him: <a id="chapter18_verse41"></a><b><sup>41 </sup></b>“What do you want me to do for you?” He said: “Lord, let me recover sight.” <a id="chapter18_verse42"></a><b><sup>42 </sup></b>So Jesus said to him: “Recover your sight; your faith has made you well.” <a id="chapter18_verse43"></a><b><sup>43 </sup></b>And instantly he recovered sight, and he began to follow him, glorifying God. Also, all the people, at seeing it, gave praise to God.</p>
</body>
</html>
