<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="application/xhtml+xml; charset=utf-8" />
<title>John 6</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/bi12.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
<p class="w_biblebookname">John</p><p class="sb"><a id="chapter6"></a><a id="chapter6_verse1"></a><span class="w_ch"><b>6 </b></span>After these things Jesus departed across the sea of Gal′i·lee, or Ti·be′ri·as. <a id="chapter6_verse2"></a><b><sup>2 </sup></b>But a great crowd kept following him, because they were beholding the signs he was performing upon those who were ill. <a id="chapter6_verse3"></a><b><sup>3 </sup></b>So Jesus went up into a mountain, and there he was sitting with his disciples. <a id="chapter6_verse4"></a><b><sup>4 </sup></b>Now the passover, the festival of the Jews, was near. <a id="chapter6_verse5"></a><b><sup>5 </sup></b>When, therefore, Jesus raised his eyes and observed that a great crowd was coming to him, he said to Philip: “Where shall we buy loaves for these to eat?” <a id="chapter6_verse6"></a><b><sup>6 </sup></b>However, he was saying this to test him, for he himself knew what he was about to do. <a id="chapter6_verse7"></a><b><sup>7 </sup></b>Philip answered him: “Two hundred de·nar′i·i worth of loaves is not enough for them, so that each one may get a little.” <a id="chapter6_verse8"></a><b><sup>8 </sup></b>One of his disciples, Andrew the brother of Simon Peter, said to him: <a id="chapter6_verse9"></a><b><sup>9 </sup></b>“Here is a little boy that has five barley loaves and two small fishes. But what are these among so many?”</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter6_verse10"></a><b><sup>10 </sup></b>Jesus said: “H<span class="smcap">AVE </span>the men recline as at meal.” Now there was a lot of grass in the place. Therefore the men reclined, about five thousand in number. <a id="chapter6_verse11"></a><b><sup>11 </sup></b>So Jesus took the loaves and, after giving thanks, he distributed them to those reclining, likewise also as much of the small fishes as they wanted. <a id="chapter6_verse12"></a><b><sup>12 </sup></b>But when they had their fill he said to his disciples: “Gather together the fragments that remain over, so that nothing is wasted.” <a id="chapter6_verse13"></a><b><sup>13 </sup></b>Therefore they gathered them together, and they filled twelve baskets with fragments from the five barley loaves, which were left over by those who had eaten.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter6_verse14"></a><b><sup>14 </sup></b>Hence when the men saw the signs he performed, they began to say: “This is for a certainty the prophet that was to come into the world.” <a id="chapter6_verse15"></a><b><sup>15 </sup></b>Therefore Jesus, knowing they were about to come and seize him to make him king, withdrew again into the mountain all alone.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter6_verse16"></a><b><sup>16 </sup></b>When evening fell, his disciples went down to the sea, <a id="chapter6_verse17"></a><b><sup>17 </sup></b>and, boarding a boat, they set out across the sea for Ca·per′na·um. Well, by now it had grown dark and Jesus had not yet come to them. <a id="chapter6_verse18"></a><b><sup>18 </sup></b>Also, the sea began to be stirred up because a strong wind was blowing. <a id="chapter6_verse19"></a><b><sup>19 </sup></b>However, when they had rowed about three or four miles, they beheld Jesus walking upon the sea and getting near the boat; and they became fearful. <a id="chapter6_verse20"></a><b><sup>20 </sup></b>But he said to them: “It is I; have no fear!” <a id="chapter6_verse21"></a><b><sup>21 </sup></b>Therefore they were willing to take him into the boat, and directly the boat was at the <a id="page1336"></a>land to which they were trying to go.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter6_verse22"></a><b><sup>22 </sup></b>The next day the crowd that was standing on the other side of the sea saw that there was no boat there except a little one, and that Jesus had not entered into the boat with his disciples but that only his disciples had left; <a id="chapter6_verse23"></a><b><sup>23 </sup></b>but boats from Ti·be′ri·as arrived near the place where they ate the bread after the Lord had given thanks. <a id="chapter6_verse24"></a><b><sup>24 </sup></b>Therefore when the crowd saw that neither Jesus was there nor his disciples, they boarded their little boats and came to Ca·per′na·um to look for Jesus.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter6_verse25"></a><b><sup>25 </sup></b>So when they found him across the sea they said to him: “Rabbi, when did you get here?” <a id="chapter6_verse26"></a><b><sup>26 </sup></b>Jesus answered them and said: “Most truly I say to <span class="smcap">YOU</span>, Y<span class="smcap">OU </span>are looking for me, not because <span class="smcap">YOU </span>saw signs, but because <span class="smcap">YOU </span>ate from the loaves and were satisfied. <a id="chapter6_verse27"></a><b><sup>27 </sup></b>Work, not for the food that perishes, but for the food that remains for life everlasting, which the Son of man will give <span class="smcap">YOU</span>; for upon this one the Father, even God, has put his seal of approval.”</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter6_verse28"></a><b><sup>28 </sup></b>Therefore they said to him: “What shall we do to work the works of God?” <a id="chapter6_verse29"></a><b><sup>29 </sup></b>In answer Jesus said to them: “This is the work of God, that <span class="smcap">YOU </span>exercise faith in him whom that One sent forth.” <a id="chapter6_verse30"></a><b><sup>30 </sup></b>Therefore they said to him: “What, then, are you performing as a sign, in order for us to see it and believe you? What work are you doing? <a id="chapter6_verse31"></a><b><sup>31 </sup></b>Our forefathers ate the manna in the wilderness, just as it is written, ‘He gave them bread from heaven to eat.’” <a id="chapter6_verse32"></a><b><sup>32 </sup></b>Hence Jesus said to them: “Most truly I say to <span class="smcap">YOU</span>, Moses did not give <span class="smcap">YOU </span>the bread from heaven, but my Father does give <span class="smcap">YOU </span>the true bread from heaven. <a id="chapter6_verse33"></a><b><sup>33 </sup></b>For the bread of God is the one who comes down from heaven and gives life to the world.” <a id="chapter6_verse34"></a><b><sup>34 </sup></b>Therefore they said to him: “Lord, always give us this bread.”</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter6_verse35"></a><b><sup>35 </sup></b>Jesus said to them: “I am the bread of life. He that comes to me will not get hungry at all, and he that exercises faith in me will never get thirsty at all. <a id="chapter6_verse36"></a><b><sup>36 </sup></b>But I have said to <span class="smcap">YOU</span>, Y<span class="smcap">OU </span>have even seen me and yet do not believe. <a id="chapter6_verse37"></a><b><sup>37 </sup></b>Everything the Father gives me will come to me, and the one that comes to me I will by no means drive away; <a id="chapter6_verse38"></a><b><sup>38 </sup></b>because I have come down from heaven to do, not my will, but the will of him that sent me. <a id="chapter6_verse39"></a><b><sup>39 </sup></b>This is the will of him that sent me, that I should lose nothing out of all that he has given me but that I should resurrect it at the last day. <a id="chapter6_verse40"></a><b><sup>40 </sup></b>For this is the will of my Father, that everyone that beholds the Son and exercises faith in him should have everlasting life, and I will resurrect him at the last day.”</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter6_verse41"></a><b><sup>41 </sup></b>Therefore the Jews began to murmur at him because he said: “I am the bread that came down from heaven”; <a id="chapter6_verse42"></a><b><sup>42 </sup></b>and they began saying: “Is this not Jesus the son of Joseph, whose father and mother we know? How is it that now he says, ‘I have come down from heaven’?” <a id="chapter6_verse43"></a><b><sup>43 </sup></b>In answer Jesus said to them: “Stop murmuring among yourselves. <a id="chapter6_verse44"></a><b><sup>44 </sup></b>No man can come to me unless the Father, who sent me, draws him; and I will resurrect him in the last day. <a id="chapter6_verse45"></a><b><sup>45 </sup></b>It is written in the Prophets, ‘And they will all be taught by Jehovah.’ Everyone that has heard from the Father and has learned comes to me. <a id="chapter6_verse46"></a><b><sup>46 </sup></b>Not that any man has seen the Father, except he who is from God; this one has seen the Father. <a id="chapter6_verse47"></a><b><sup>47 </sup></b>Most truly I say to <span class="smcap">YOU</span>, He that believes has everlasting life.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter6_verse48"></a><b><sup>48 </sup></b>“I am the bread of life. <a id="chapter6_verse49"></a><b><sup>49 </sup></b>Y<span class="smcap">OUR </span>forefathers ate the manna in the wilderness and yet <a id="page1337"></a>died. <a id="chapter6_verse50"></a><b><sup>50 </sup></b>This is the bread that comes down from heaven, so that anyone may eat of it and not die. <a id="chapter6_verse51"></a><b><sup>51 </sup></b>I am the living bread that came down from heaven; if anyone eats of this bread he will live forever; and, for a fact, the bread that I shall give is my flesh in behalf of the life of the world.”</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter6_verse52"></a><b><sup>52 </sup></b>Therefore the Jews began contending with one another, saying: “How can this man give us his flesh to eat?” <a id="chapter6_verse53"></a><b><sup>53 </sup></b>Accordingly Jesus said to them: “Most truly I say to <span class="smcap">YOU</span>, Unless <span class="smcap">YOU </span>eat the flesh of the Son of man and drink his blood, <span class="smcap">YOU </span>have no life in yourselves. <a id="chapter6_verse54"></a><b><sup>54 </sup></b>He that feeds on my flesh and drinks my blood has everlasting life, and I shall resurrect him at the last day; <a id="chapter6_verse55"></a><b><sup>55 </sup></b>for my flesh is true food, and my blood is true drink. <a id="chapter6_verse56"></a><b><sup>56 </sup></b>He that feeds on my flesh and drinks my blood remains in union with me, and I in union with him. <a id="chapter6_verse57"></a><b><sup>57 </sup></b>Just as the living Father sent me forth and I live because of the Father, he also that feeds on me, even that one will live because of me. <a id="chapter6_verse58"></a><b><sup>58 </sup></b>This is the bread that came down from heaven. It is not as when <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>forefathers ate and yet died. He that feeds on this bread will live forever.” <a id="chapter6_verse59"></a><b><sup>59 </sup></b>These things he said as he was teaching in public assembly at Ca·per′na·um.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter6_verse60"></a><b><sup>60 </sup></b>Therefore many of his disciples, when they heard this, said: “This speech is shocking; who can listen to it?” <a id="chapter6_verse61"></a><b><sup>61 </sup></b>But Jesus, knowing in himself that his disciples were murmuring about this, said to them: “Does this stumble <span class="smcap">YOU</span>? <a id="chapter6_verse62"></a><b><sup>62 </sup></b>What, therefore, if <span class="smcap">YOU </span>should behold the Son of man ascending to where he was before? <a id="chapter6_verse63"></a><b><sup>63 </sup></b>It is the spirit that is life-giving; the flesh is of no use at all. The sayings that I have spoken to <span class="smcap">YOU </span>are spirit and are life. <a id="chapter6_verse64"></a><b><sup>64 </sup></b>But there are some of <span class="smcap">YOU </span>that do not believe.” For from the beginning Jesus knew who were the ones not believing and who was the one that would betray him. <a id="chapter6_verse65"></a><b><sup>65 </sup></b>So he went on to say: “This is why I have said to <span class="smcap">YOU</span>, No one can come to me unless it is granted him by the Father.”</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter6_verse66"></a><b><sup>66 </sup></b>Owing to this many of his disciples went off to the things behind and would no longer walk with him. <a id="chapter6_verse67"></a><b><sup>67 </sup></b>Therefore Jesus said to the twelve: “Y<span class="smcap">OU </span>do not want to go also, do <span class="smcap">YOU</span>?” <a id="chapter6_verse68"></a><b><sup>68 </sup></b>Simon Peter answered him: “Lord, whom shall we go away to? You have sayings of everlasting life; <a id="chapter6_verse69"></a><b><sup>69 </sup></b>and we have believed and come to know that you are the Holy One of God.” <a id="chapter6_verse70"></a><b><sup>70 </sup></b>Jesus answered them: “I chose <span class="smcap">YOU </span>twelve, did I not? Yet one of <span class="smcap">YOU </span>is a slanderer.” <a id="chapter6_verse71"></a><b><sup>71 </sup></b>He was, in fact, speaking of Judas the son of Simon Is·car′i·ot; for this one was going to betray him, although one of the twelve.</p>
</body>
</html>
