<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="application/xhtml+xml; charset=utf-8" />
<title>John 8</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/bi12.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
<p class="w_biblebookname">John</p><p class="sb"><a id="chapter8"></a><a id="chapter8_verse1"></a><span class="w_ch"><b>8 </b></span><span class="smcap">But Jesus went to the Mount of Olives. </span><a id="chapter8_verse2"></a><b><sup>2 </sup></b><span class="smcap">At daybreak, however, he again presented himself at the temple, and all the people began coming to him, and he sat down and began to teach them. </span><a id="chapter8_verse3"></a><b><sup>3 </sup></b><span class="smcap">Now the scribes and the Pharisees brought a woman caught at adultery, and, after standing her in their midst, </span><a id="chapter8_verse4"></a><b><sup>4 </sup></b><span class="smcap">they said to him: “Teacher, this woman has been caught in the act of committing adultery. </span><a id="chapter8_verse5"></a><b><sup>5 </sup></b><span class="smcap">In the Law Moses prescribed for us to stone such sort of women. What, really, do you say?” </span><a id="chapter8_verse6"></a><b><sup>6 </sup></b><span class="smcap">Of course, they were saying this to put him to the test, in order to have something with which to accuse him. But Jesus bent down and began to write with his finger in the ground. </span><a id="chapter8_verse7"></a><b><sup>7 </sup></b><span class="smcap">When they persisted in asking him, he straightened up and said to them: “Let the one of YOU that is sinless be the first to throw a stone at her.” </span><a id="chapter8_verse8"></a><b><sup>8 </sup></b><span class="smcap">And bending over again he kept on writing in the ground. </span><a id="chapter8_verse9"></a><b><sup>9 </sup></b><span class="smcap">But those who heard this began going out, one by one, starting with the older men, and he was left alone, and the woman that was in their midst. </span><a id="chapter8_verse10"></a><b><sup>10 </sup></b><span class="smcap">Straightening up, Jesus said to her: “Woman, where are they? Did no one condemn you?” </span><a id="chapter8_verse11"></a><b><sup>11 </sup></b><span class="smcap">She said: “No one, sir.” Jesus said: “Neither do I condemn you. Go your way; from now on practice sin no more.”</span></p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter8_verse12"></a><b><sup>12 </sup></b>Therefore Jesus spoke again to them, saying: “I am the light of the world. He that follows me will by no means walk in darkness, but will possess the light of life.” <a id="chapter8_verse13"></a><b><sup>13 </sup></b>Hence the Pharisees said to him: “You <a id="page1340"></a>bear witness about yourself; your witness is not true.” <a id="chapter8_verse14"></a><b><sup>14 </sup></b>In answer Jesus said to them: “Even if I do bear witness about myself, my witness is true, because I know where I came from and where I am going. But <span class="smcap">YOU </span>do not know where I came from and where I am going. <a id="chapter8_verse15"></a><b><sup>15 </sup></b>Y<span class="smcap">OU </span>judge according to the flesh; I do not judge any man at all. <a id="chapter8_verse16"></a><b><sup>16 </sup></b>And yet if I do judge, my judgment is truthful, because I am not alone, but the Father who sent me is with me. <a id="chapter8_verse17"></a><b><sup>17 </sup></b>Also, in <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>own Law it is written, ‘The witness of two men is true.’ <a id="chapter8_verse18"></a><b><sup>18 </sup></b>I am one that bears witness about myself, and the Father who sent me bears witness about me.” <a id="chapter8_verse19"></a><b><sup>19 </sup></b>Therefore they went on to say to him: “Where is your Father?” Jesus answered: “Y<span class="smcap">OU </span>know neither me nor my Father. If <span class="smcap">YOU </span>did know me, <span class="smcap">YOU </span>would know my Father also.” <a id="chapter8_verse20"></a><b><sup>20 </sup></b>These sayings he spoke in the treasury as he was teaching in the temple. But no one laid hold of him, because his hour had not yet come.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter8_verse21"></a><b><sup>21 </sup></b>Hence he said to them again: “I am going away, and <span class="smcap">YOU </span>will look for me, and yet <span class="smcap">YOU </span>will die in <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>sin. Where I am going <span class="smcap">YOU </span>cannot come.” <a id="chapter8_verse22"></a><b><sup>22 </sup></b>Therefore the Jews began to say: “He will not kill himself, will he? Because he says, ‘Where I am going <span class="smcap">YOU </span>cannot come.’” <a id="chapter8_verse23"></a><b><sup>23 </sup></b>So he went on to say to them: “Y<span class="smcap">OU </span>are from the realms below; I am from the realms above. Y<span class="smcap">OU </span>are from this world; I am not from this world. <a id="chapter8_verse24"></a><b><sup>24 </sup></b>Therefore I said to <span class="smcap">YOU</span>, Y<span class="smcap">OU </span>will die in <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>sins. For if <span class="smcap">YOU </span>do not believe that I am he, <span class="smcap">YOU </span>will die in <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>sins.” <a id="chapter8_verse25"></a><b><sup>25 </sup></b>Therefore they began to say to him: “Who are you?” Jesus said to them: “Why am I even speaking to <span class="smcap">YOU </span>at all? <a id="chapter8_verse26"></a><b><sup>26 </sup></b>I have many things to speak concerning <span class="smcap">YOU </span>and to pass judgment upon. As a matter of fact, he that sent me is true, and the very things I heard from him I am speaking in the world.” <a id="chapter8_verse27"></a><b><sup>27 </sup></b>They did not grasp that he was talking to them about the Father. <a id="chapter8_verse28"></a><b><sup>28 </sup></b>Therefore Jesus said: “When once <span class="smcap">YOU </span>have lifted up the Son of man, then <span class="smcap">YOU </span>will know that I am he, and that I do nothing of my own initiative; but just as the Father taught me I speak these things. <a id="chapter8_verse29"></a><b><sup>29 </sup></b>And he that sent me is with me; he did not abandon me to myself, because I always do the things pleasing to him.” <a id="chapter8_verse30"></a><b><sup>30 </sup></b>As he was speaking these things, many put faith in him.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter8_verse31"></a><b><sup>31 </sup></b>And so Jesus went on to say to the Jews that had believed him: “If <span class="smcap">YOU </span>remain in my word, <span class="smcap">YOU </span>are really my disciples, <a id="chapter8_verse32"></a><b><sup>32 </sup></b>and <span class="smcap">YOU </span>will know the truth, and the truth will set <span class="smcap">YOU </span>free.” <a id="chapter8_verse33"></a><b><sup>33 </sup></b>They replied to him: “We are Abraham’s offspring and never have we been slaves to anybody. How is it you say, ‘Y<span class="smcap">OU </span>will become free’?” <a id="chapter8_verse34"></a><b><sup>34 </sup></b>Jesus answered them: “Most truly I say to <span class="smcap">YOU</span>, Every doer of sin is a slave of sin. <a id="chapter8_verse35"></a><b><sup>35 </sup></b>Moreover, the slave does not remain in the household forever; the son remains forever. <a id="chapter8_verse36"></a><b><sup>36 </sup></b>Therefore if the Son sets <span class="smcap">YOU </span>free, <span class="smcap">YOU </span>will be actually free. <a id="chapter8_verse37"></a><b><sup>37 </sup></b>I know that <span class="smcap">YOU </span>are Abraham’s offspring; but <span class="smcap">YOU </span>are seeking to kill me, because my word makes no progress among <span class="smcap">YOU</span>. <a id="chapter8_verse38"></a><b><sup>38 </sup></b>What things I have seen with my Father I speak; and <span class="smcap">YOU</span>, therefore, do the things <span class="smcap">YOU </span>have heard from <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>father.” <a id="chapter8_verse39"></a><b><sup>39 </sup></b>In answer they said to him: “Our father is Abraham.” Jesus said to them: “If <span class="smcap">YOU </span>are Abraham’s children, do the works of Abraham. <a id="chapter8_verse40"></a><b><sup>40 </sup></b>But now <span class="smcap">YOU </span>are seeking to kill me, a man that has told <span class="smcap">YOU </span>the truth that I heard from God. Abraham did not do <a id="page1341"></a>this. <a id="chapter8_verse41"></a><b><sup>41 </sup></b>Y<span class="smcap">OU </span>do the works of <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>father.” They said to him: “We were not born from fornication; we have one Father, God.”</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter8_verse42"></a><b><sup>42 </sup></b>Jesus said to them: “If God were <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>Father, <span class="smcap">YOU </span>would love me, for from God I came forth and am here. Neither have I come of my own initiative at all, but that One sent me forth. <a id="chapter8_verse43"></a><b><sup>43 </sup></b>Why is it <span class="smcap">YOU </span>do not know what I am speaking? Because <span class="smcap">YOU </span>cannot listen to my word. <a id="chapter8_verse44"></a><b><sup>44 </sup></b>Y<span class="smcap">OU </span>are from <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>father the Devil, and <span class="smcap">YOU </span>wish to do the desires of <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>father. That one was a manslayer when he began, and he did not stand fast in the truth, because truth is not in him. When he speaks the lie, he speaks according to his own disposition, because he is a liar and the father of the lie. <a id="chapter8_verse45"></a><b><sup>45 </sup></b>Because I, on the other hand, tell the truth, <span class="smcap">YOU </span>do not believe me. <a id="chapter8_verse46"></a><b><sup>46 </sup></b>Who of <span class="smcap">YOU </span>convicts me of sin? If I speak truth, why is it <span class="smcap">YOU </span>do not believe me? <a id="chapter8_verse47"></a><b><sup>47 </sup></b>He that is from God listens to the sayings of God. This is why <span class="smcap">YOU </span>do not listen, because <span class="smcap">YOU </span>are not from God.”</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter8_verse48"></a><b><sup>48 </sup></b>In answer the Jews said to him: “Do we not rightly say, You are a Sa·mar′i·tan and have a demon?” <a id="chapter8_verse49"></a><b><sup>49 </sup></b>Jesus answered: “I do not have a demon, but I honor my Father, and <span class="smcap">YOU </span>dishonor me. <a id="chapter8_verse50"></a><b><sup>50 </sup></b>But I am not seeking glory for myself; there is One that is seeking and judging. <a id="chapter8_verse51"></a><b><sup>51 </sup></b>Most truly I say to <span class="smcap">YOU</span>, If anyone observes my word, he will never see death at all.” <a id="chapter8_verse52"></a><b><sup>52 </sup></b>The Jews said to him: “Now we do know you have a demon. Abraham died, also the prophets; but you say, ‘If anyone observes my word, he will never taste death at all.’ <a id="chapter8_verse53"></a><b><sup>53 </sup></b>You are not greater than our father Abraham, who died, are you? Also, the prophets died. Who do you claim to be?” <a id="chapter8_verse54"></a><b><sup>54 </sup></b>Jesus answered: “If I glorify myself, my glory is nothing. It is my Father that glorifies me, he who <span class="smcap">YOU </span>say is <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>God; <a id="chapter8_verse55"></a><b><sup>55 </sup></b>and yet <span class="smcap">YOU </span>have not known him. But I know him. And if I said I do not know him I should be like <span class="smcap">YOU</span>, a liar. But I do know him and am observing his word. <a id="chapter8_verse56"></a><b><sup>56 </sup></b>Abraham <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>father rejoiced greatly in the prospect of seeing my day, and he saw it and rejoiced.” <a id="chapter8_verse57"></a><b><sup>57 </sup></b>Therefore the Jews said to him: “You are not yet fifty years old, and still you have seen Abraham?” <a id="chapter8_verse58"></a><b><sup>58 </sup></b>Jesus said to them: “Most truly I say to <span class="smcap">YOU</span>, Before Abraham came into existence, I have been.” <a id="chapter8_verse59"></a><b><sup>59 </sup></b>Therefore they picked up stones to hurl them at him; but Jesus hid and went out of the temple.</p>
</body>
</html>
