<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="application/xhtml+xml; charset=utf-8" />
<title>John 16</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/bi12.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
<p class="w_biblebookname">John</p><p class="sb"><a id="chapter16"></a><a id="chapter16_verse1"></a><span class="w_ch"><b>16 </b></span>“I have spoken these things to <span class="smcap">YOU </span>that <span class="smcap">YOU </span>may not be stumbled. <a id="chapter16_verse2"></a><b><sup>2 </sup></b>Men will expel <span class="smcap">YOU </span>from the synagogue. In fact, the hour is coming when everyone that kills <span class="smcap">YOU </span>will imagine he has rendered a sacred service to God. <a id="chapter16_verse3"></a><b><sup>3 </sup></b>But they will do these things because they have not come to know either the Father or me. <a id="chapter16_verse4"></a><b><sup>4 </sup></b>Nevertheless, I have spoken these things to <span class="smcap">YOU </span>that, when the hour for them arrives, <span class="smcap">YOU </span>may remember I told them to <span class="smcap">YOU</span>.</p>
<p class="sb">“These things, however, I did not tell <span class="smcap">YOU </span>at first, because I was with <span class="smcap">YOU</span>. <a id="chapter16_verse5"></a><b><sup>5 </sup></b>But now I am going to him that sent me, and yet not one of <span class="smcap">YOU </span>asks me, ‘Where are you going?’ <a id="chapter16_verse6"></a><b><sup>6 </sup></b>But because I have spoken these things to <span class="smcap">YOU </span>grief has filled <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>hearts. <a id="chapter16_verse7"></a><b><sup>7 </sup></b>Nevertheless, I am telling <span class="smcap">YOU </span>the truth, It is for <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>benefit I am going away. For if I do not go away, the helper will by no means come to <span class="smcap">YOU</span>; but if I do go my way, I will send him to <span class="smcap">YOU</span>. <a id="chapter16_verse8"></a><b><sup>8 </sup></b>And when that one arrives he will give the world convincing evidence concerning sin and concerning righteousness and concerning judgment: <a id="chapter16_verse9"></a><b><sup>9 </sup></b>in the first place, concerning sin, because they are not exercising faith in me; <a id="chapter16_verse10"></a><b><sup>10 </sup></b>then concerning righteousness, because I am going to the Father and <span class="smcap">YOU </span>will behold me no longer; <a id="chapter16_verse11"></a><b><sup>11 </sup></b>then concerning judgment, because the ruler of this world has been judged.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter16_verse12"></a><b><sup>12 </sup></b>“I have many things yet to say to <span class="smcap">YOU</span>, but <span class="smcap">YOU </span>are not able to bear them at present. <a id="chapter16_verse13"></a><b><sup>13 </sup></b>However, when that one arrives, the spirit of the truth, he will guide <span class="smcap">YOU </span>into all the truth, for he will not speak of his own impulse, but what things he hears he will speak, and he will declare to <span class="smcap">YOU </span>the things coming. <a id="chapter16_verse14"></a><b><sup>14 </sup></b>That one will glorify me, because he will receive from what is mine and will declare it to <span class="smcap">YOU</span>. <a id="chapter16_verse15"></a><b><sup>15 </sup></b>All the things that the Father has are mine. That is why I said he receives from what is mine and declares it to <span class="smcap">YOU</span>. <a id="chapter16_verse16"></a><b><sup>16 </sup></b>In a little while <span class="smcap">YOU </span>will behold me no longer, and, again, in a little while <span class="smcap">YOU </span>will see me.”</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter16_verse17"></a><b><sup>17 </sup></b>Therefore some of his disciples said to one another: “What does this mean that he says to us, ‘In a little while <span class="smcap">YOU </span>will not behold me, and, again, in a little while <span class="smcap">YOU </span>will see me,’ and, ‘because I am going to the Father’?” <a id="chapter16_verse18"></a><b><sup>18 </sup></b>Hence they were saying: “What does this mean that he says, ‘a little while’? We do not know what he is talking about.” <a id="chapter16_verse19"></a><b><sup>19 </sup></b>Jesus knew they were wanting to question him, so he said to them: “Are <span class="smcap">YOU </span>inquiring among yourselves over this, because I said, In a little while <span class="smcap">YOU </span>will not behold me, and, again, in a little while <span class="smcap">YOU </span>will see me? <a id="chapter16_verse20"></a><b><sup>20 </sup></b>Most truly I say to <span class="smcap">YOU</span>, Y<span class="smcap">OU </span>will weep and wail, but the world will rejoice; <span class="smcap">YOU </span>will be grieved, but <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>grief will be turned into <a id="page1353"></a>joy. <a id="chapter16_verse21"></a><b><sup>21 </sup></b>A woman, when she is giving birth, has grief, because her hour has arrived; but when she has brought forth the young child, she remembers the tribulation no more because of the joy that a man has been born into the world. <a id="chapter16_verse22"></a><b><sup>22 </sup></b>Y<span class="smcap">OU </span>also, therefore, are now, indeed, having grief; but I shall see <span class="smcap">YOU </span>again and <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>hearts will rejoice, and <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>joy no one will take from <span class="smcap">YOU</span>. <a id="chapter16_verse23"></a><b><sup>23 </sup></b>And in that day <span class="smcap">YOU </span>will ask me no question at all. Most truly I say to <span class="smcap">YOU</span>, If <span class="smcap">YOU </span>ask the Father for anything he will give it to <span class="smcap">YOU </span>in my name. <a id="chapter16_verse24"></a><b><sup>24 </sup></b>Until this present time <span class="smcap">YOU </span>have not asked a single thing in my name. Ask and <span class="smcap">YOU </span>will receive, that <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>joy may be made full.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter16_verse25"></a><b><sup>25 </sup></b>“I have spoken these things to <span class="smcap">YOU </span>in comparisons. The hour is coming when I will speak to <span class="smcap">YOU </span>no more in comparisons, but I will report to <span class="smcap">YOU </span>with plainness concerning the Father. <a id="chapter16_verse26"></a><b><sup>26 </sup></b>In that day <span class="smcap">YOU </span>will ask in my name, and I do not say to <span class="smcap">YOU </span>that I shall make request of the Father concerning <span class="smcap">YOU</span>. <a id="chapter16_verse27"></a><b><sup>27 </sup></b>For the Father himself has affection for <span class="smcap">YOU</span>, because <span class="smcap">YOU </span>have had affection for me and have believed that I came out as the Father’s representative. <a id="chapter16_verse28"></a><b><sup>28 </sup></b>I came out from the Father and have come into the world. Further, I am leaving the world and am going my way to the Father.”</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter16_verse29"></a><b><sup>29 </sup></b>His disciples said: “See! Now you are speaking with plainness, and are uttering no comparison. <a id="chapter16_verse30"></a><b><sup>30 </sup></b>Now we know that you know all things and you do not need to have anyone question you. By this we believe that you came out from God.” <a id="chapter16_verse31"></a><b><sup>31 </sup></b>Jesus answered them: “Do <span class="smcap">YOU </span>believe at present? <a id="chapter16_verse32"></a><b><sup>32 </sup></b>Look! The hour is coming, indeed, it has come, when <span class="smcap">YOU </span>will be scattered each one to his own house and <span class="smcap">YOU </span>will leave me alone; and yet I am not alone, because the Father is with me. <a id="chapter16_verse33"></a><b><sup>33 </sup></b>I have said these things to <span class="smcap">YOU </span>that by means of me <span class="smcap">YOU </span>may have peace. In the world <span class="smcap">YOU </span>are having tribulation, but take courage! I have conquered the world.”</p>
</body>
</html>
