<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="application/xhtml+xml; charset=utf-8" />
<title>Acts 6</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/bi12.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
<p class="w_biblebookname">Acts</p><p class="sb"><a id="chapter6"></a><a id="chapter6_verse1"></a><span class="w_ch"><b>6 </b></span>Now in these days, when the disciples were increasing, a murmuring arose on the part of the Greek-speaking Jews against the Hebrew-speaking Jews, because their widows were being overlooked in the daily distribution. <a id="chapter6_verse2"></a><b><sup>2 </sup></b>So the twelve called the multitude of the disciples to them and said: “It is not pleasing for us to leave the word of God to distribute food to tables. <a id="chapter6_verse3"></a><b><sup>3 </sup></b>So, brothers, search out for yourselves seven certified men from among <span class="smcap">YOU</span>, full of spirit and wisdom, that we may appoint them over this necessary business; <a id="chapter6_verse4"></a><b><sup>4 </sup></b>but we shall devote ourselves to prayer and to the ministry of the word.” <a id="chapter6_verse5"></a><b><sup>5 </sup></b>And the thing spoken was pleasing to the whole multitude, and they selected Stephen, a man full of faith and holy spirit, and Philip and Proch′o·rus and Ni·ca′nor and Ti′mon and Par′me·nas and Nic·o·la′us, a proselyte of Antioch; <a id="chapter6_verse6"></a><b><sup>6 </sup></b>and they placed them before the apostles, and, after having prayed, these laid their hands upon them.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter6_verse7"></a><b><sup>7 </sup></b>Consequently the word of God went on growing, and the number of the disciples kept multiplying in Jerusalem very much; and a great crowd of priests began to be obedient to the faith.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter6_verse8"></a><b><sup>8 </sup></b>Now Stephen, full of graciousness and power, was performing great portents and signs among the people. <a id="chapter6_verse9"></a><b><sup>9 </sup></b>But certain men rose up of those from the so-called Synagogue of the Freedmen, and of the Cy·re′ni·ans and Alexandrians and of those from Ci·li′cia and Asia, to dispute with Stephen; <a id="chapter6_verse10"></a><b><sup>10 </sup></b>and yet they could not hold their own against the wisdom and the spirit with which he was speaking. <a id="chapter6_verse11"></a><b><sup>11 </sup></b>Then they secretly induced men to say: “We have heard him speaking blasphemous sayings against Moses and God.” <a id="chapter6_verse12"></a><b><sup>12 </sup></b>And they stirred up the people and the older men and the scribes, and, coming upon him suddenly, they took him by force and led him to the San′he·drin. <a id="chapter6_verse13"></a><b><sup>13 </sup></b>And they brought forward false witnesses, who said: “This man does not stop speaking things against this holy place and against the Law. <a id="chapter6_verse14"></a><b><sup>14 </sup></b>For instance, we have heard him say that this Jesus the Naz·a·rene′ <a id="page1369"></a>will throw down this place and change the customs that Moses handed down to us.”</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter6_verse15"></a><b><sup>15 </sup></b>And as all those sitting in the San′he·drin gazed at him, they saw that his face was as an angel’s face.</p>
</body>
</html>
