<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="application/xhtml+xml; charset=utf-8" />
<title>Romans 6</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/bi12.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
<p class="w_biblebookname">Romans</p><p class="sb"><a id="chapter6"></a><a id="chapter6_verse1"></a><span class="w_ch"><b>6 </b></span>Consequently, what shall we say? Shall we continue in sin, that undeserved kindness may abound? <a id="chapter6_verse2"></a><b><sup>2 </sup></b>Never may that happen! Seeing that we died with reference to sin, how shall we keep on living any longer in it? <a id="chapter6_verse3"></a><b><sup>3 </sup></b>Or do <span class="smcap">YOU </span>not know that all of us who were baptized into Christ Jesus were baptized into his death? <a id="chapter6_verse4"></a><b><sup>4 </sup></b>Therefore we were buried with him through our baptism into his death, in order <a id="page1411"></a>that, just as Christ was raised up from the dead through the glory of the Father, we also should likewise walk in a newness of life. <a id="chapter6_verse5"></a><b><sup>5 </sup></b>For if we have become united with him in the likeness of his death, we shall certainly also be united with him in the likeness of his resurrection; <a id="chapter6_verse6"></a><b><sup>6 </sup></b>because we know that our old personality was impaled with him, that our sinful body might be made inactive, that we should no longer go on being slaves to sin. <a id="chapter6_verse7"></a><b><sup>7 </sup></b>For he who has died has been acquitted from his sin.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter6_verse8"></a><b><sup>8 </sup></b>Moreover, if we have died with Christ, we believe that we shall also live with him. <a id="chapter6_verse9"></a><b><sup>9 </sup></b>For we know that Christ, now that he has been raised up from the dead, dies no more; death is master over him no more. <a id="chapter6_verse10"></a><b><sup>10 </sup></b>For the death that he died, he died with reference to sin once for all time; but the life that he lives, he lives with reference to God. <a id="chapter6_verse11"></a><b><sup>11 </sup></b>Likewise also <span class="smcap">YOU</span>: reckon yourselves to be dead indeed with reference to sin but living with reference to God by Christ Jesus.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter6_verse12"></a><b><sup>12 </sup></b>Therefore do not let sin continue to rule as king in <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>mortal bodies that <span class="smcap">YOU </span>should obey their desires. <a id="chapter6_verse13"></a><b><sup>13 </sup></b>Neither go on presenting <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>members to sin as weapons of unrighteousness, but present yourselves to God as those alive from the dead, also <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>members to God as weapons of righteousness. <a id="chapter6_verse14"></a><b><sup>14 </sup></b>For sin must not be master over <span class="smcap">YOU</span>, seeing that <span class="smcap">YOU </span>are not under law but under undeserved kindness.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter6_verse15"></a><b><sup>15 </sup></b>What follows? Shall we commit a sin because we are not under law but under undeserved kindness? Never may that happen! <a id="chapter6_verse16"></a><b><sup>16 </sup></b>Do <span class="smcap">YOU </span>not know that if <span class="smcap">YOU </span>keep presenting yourselves to anyone as slaves to obey him, <span class="smcap">YOU </span>are slaves of him because <span class="smcap">YOU </span>obey him, either of sin with death in view or of obedience with righteousness in view? <a id="chapter6_verse17"></a><b><sup>17 </sup></b>But thanks to God that <span class="smcap">YOU </span>were the slaves of sin but <span class="smcap">YOU </span>became obedient from the heart to that form of teaching to which <span class="smcap">YOU </span>were handed over. <a id="chapter6_verse18"></a><b><sup>18 </sup></b>Yes, since <span class="smcap">YOU </span>were set free from sin, <span class="smcap">YOU </span>became slaves to righteousness. <a id="chapter6_verse19"></a><b><sup>19 </sup></b>I am speaking in human terms because of the weakness of <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>flesh: for even as <span class="smcap">YOU </span>presented <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>members as slaves to uncleanness and lawlessness with lawlessness in view, so now present <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>members as slaves to righteousness with holiness in view. <a id="chapter6_verse20"></a><b><sup>20 </sup></b>For when <span class="smcap">YOU </span>were slaves of sin, <span class="smcap">YOU </span>were free as to righteousness.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter6_verse21"></a><b><sup>21 </sup></b>What, then, was the fruit that <span class="smcap">YOU </span>used to have at that time? Things of which <span class="smcap">YOU </span>are now ashamed. For the end of those things is death. <a id="chapter6_verse22"></a><b><sup>22 </sup></b>However, now, because <span class="smcap">YOU </span>were set free from sin but became slaves to God, <span class="smcap">YOU </span>are having <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>fruit in the way of holiness, and the end everlasting life. <a id="chapter6_verse23"></a><b><sup>23 </sup></b>For the wages sin pays is death, but the gift God gives is everlasting life by Christ Jesus our Lord.</p>
</body>
</html>
