<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="application/xhtml+xml; charset=utf-8" />
<title>1 Corinthians 11</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/bi12.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
<p class="w_biblebookname">1 Corinthians</p><p class="sb"><a id="chapter11"></a><a id="chapter11_verse1"></a><span class="w_ch"><b>11 </b></span>Become imitators of me, even as I am of Christ.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter11_verse2"></a><b><sup>2 </sup></b>Now I commend <span class="smcap">YOU </span>because in all things <span class="smcap">YOU </span>have me in mind and <span class="smcap">YOU </span>are holding fast the traditions just as I handed them on to <span class="smcap">YOU</span>. <a id="chapter11_verse3"></a><b><sup>3 </sup></b>But I want <span class="smcap">YOU </span>to know that the head of every man is the Christ; in turn <a id="page1433"></a>the head of a woman is the man; in turn the head of the Christ is God. <a id="chapter11_verse4"></a><b><sup>4 </sup></b>Every man that prays or prophesies having something on his head shames his head; <a id="chapter11_verse5"></a><b><sup>5 </sup></b>but every woman that prays or prophesies with her head uncovered shames her head, for it is one and the same as if she were a woman with a shaved head. <a id="chapter11_verse6"></a><b><sup>6 </sup></b>For if a woman does not cover herself, let her also be shorn; but if it is disgraceful for a woman to be shorn or shaved, let her be covered.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter11_verse7"></a><b><sup>7 </sup></b>For a man ought not to have his head covered, as he is God’s image and glory; but the woman is man’s glory. <a id="chapter11_verse8"></a><b><sup>8 </sup></b>For man is not out of woman, but woman out of man; <a id="chapter11_verse9"></a><b><sup>9 </sup></b>and, what is more, man was not created for the sake of the woman, but woman for the sake of the man. <a id="chapter11_verse10"></a><b><sup>10 </sup></b>That is why the woman ought to have a sign of authority upon her head because of the angels.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter11_verse11"></a><b><sup>11 </sup></b>Besides, in connection with the Lord neither is woman without man nor man without woman. <a id="chapter11_verse12"></a><b><sup>12 </sup></b>For just as the woman is out of the man, so also the man is through the woman; but all things are out of God. <a id="chapter11_verse13"></a><b><sup>13 </sup></b>Judge for <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>own selves: Is it fitting for a woman to pray uncovered to God? <a id="chapter11_verse14"></a><b><sup>14 </sup></b>Does not nature itself teach <span class="smcap">YOU </span>that if a man has long hair, it is a dishonor to him; <a id="chapter11_verse15"></a><b><sup>15 </sup></b>but if a woman has long hair, it is a glory to her? Because her hair is given her instead of a headdress. <a id="chapter11_verse16"></a><b><sup>16 </sup></b>However, if any man seems to dispute for some other custom, we have no other, neither do the congregations of God.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter11_verse17"></a><b><sup>17 </sup></b>But, while giving these instructions, I do not commend <span class="smcap">YOU </span>because it is, not for the better, but for the worse that <span class="smcap">YOU </span>meet together. <a id="chapter11_verse18"></a><b><sup>18 </sup></b>For first of all, when <span class="smcap">YOU </span>come together in a congregation, I hear divisions exist among <span class="smcap">YOU</span>; and in some measure I believe it. <a id="chapter11_verse19"></a><b><sup>19 </sup></b>For there must also be sects among <span class="smcap">YOU</span>, that the persons approved may also become manifest among <span class="smcap">YOU</span>.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter11_verse20"></a><b><sup>20 </sup></b>Therefore, when <span class="smcap">YOU </span>come together to one place, it is not possible to eat the Lord’s evening meal. <a id="chapter11_verse21"></a><b><sup>21 </sup></b>For, when <span class="smcap">YOU </span>eat it, each one takes his own evening meal beforehand, so that one is hungry but another is intoxicated. <a id="chapter11_verse22"></a><b><sup>22 </sup></b>Certainly <span class="smcap">YOU </span>do have houses for eating and drinking, do <span class="smcap">YOU </span>not? Or do <span class="smcap">YOU </span>despise the congregation of God and make those who have nothing ashamed? What shall I say to <span class="smcap">YOU</span>? Shall I commend <span class="smcap">YOU</span>? In this I do not commend <span class="smcap">YOU</span>.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter11_verse23"></a><b><sup>23 </sup></b>For I received from the Lord that which I also handed on to <span class="smcap">YOU</span>, that the Lord Jesus in the night in which he was going to be handed over took a loaf <a id="chapter11_verse24"></a><b><sup>24 </sup></b>and, after giving thanks, he broke it and said: “This means my body which is in <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>behalf. Keep doing this in remembrance of me.” <a id="chapter11_verse25"></a><b><sup>25 </sup></b>He did likewise respecting the cup also, after he had the evening meal, saying: “This cup means the new covenant by virtue of my blood. Keep doing this, as often as <span class="smcap">YOU </span>drink it, in remembrance of me.” <a id="chapter11_verse26"></a><b><sup>26 </sup></b>For as often as <span class="smcap">YOU </span>eat this loaf and drink this cup, <span class="smcap">YOU </span>keep proclaiming the death of the Lord, until he arrives.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter11_verse27"></a><b><sup>27 </sup></b>Consequently whoever eats the loaf or drinks the cup of the Lord unworthily will be guilty respecting the body and the blood of the Lord. <a id="chapter11_verse28"></a><b><sup>28 </sup></b>First let a man approve himself after scrutiny, and thus let him eat of the loaf and drink of the cup. <a id="chapter11_verse29"></a><b><sup>29 </sup></b>For he that eats and drinks eats and drinks judgment against himself if he does not discern the body. <a id="chapter11_verse30"></a><b><sup>30 </sup></b>That is why many among <span class="smcap">YOU </span>are <a id="page1434"></a>weak and sickly, and quite a few are sleeping in death. <a id="chapter11_verse31"></a><b><sup>31 </sup></b>But if we would discern what we ourselves are, we would not be judged. <a id="chapter11_verse32"></a><b><sup>32 </sup></b>However, when we are judged, we are disciplined by Jehovah, that we may not become condemned with the world. <a id="chapter11_verse33"></a><b><sup>33 </sup></b>Consequently, my brothers, when <span class="smcap">YOU </span>come together to eat it, wait for one another. <a id="chapter11_verse34"></a><b><sup>34 </sup></b>If anyone is hungry, let him eat at home, that <span class="smcap">YOU </span>may not come together for judgment. But the remaining matters I will set in order when I get there.</p>
</body>
</html>
