<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="application/xhtml+xml; charset=utf-8" />
<title>1 Corinthians 4</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/bi12.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
<p class="w_biblebookname">1 Corinthians</p><p class="sb"><a id="chapter4"></a><a id="chapter4_verse1"></a><span class="w_ch"><b>4 </b></span>Let a man so appraise us as being subordinates of Christ and stewards of sacred secrets of God. <a id="chapter4_verse2"></a><b><sup>2 </sup></b>Besides, in this case, what is looked for in stewards is for a man to be found faithful. <a id="chapter4_verse3"></a><b><sup>3 </sup></b>Now to me it is a very trivial matter that I should be examined by <span class="smcap">YOU </span>or by a human tribunal. Even I do not examine myself. <a id="chapter4_verse4"></a><b><sup>4 </sup></b>For I am not conscious of anything against myself. Yet by this I am not proved righteous, but he that examines <a id="page1426"></a>me is Jehovah. <a id="chapter4_verse5"></a><b><sup>5 </sup></b>Hence do not judge anything before the due time, until the Lord comes, who will both bring the secret things of darkness to light and make the counsels of the hearts manifest, and then each one will have his praise come to him from God.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter4_verse6"></a><b><sup>6 </sup></b>Now, brothers, these things I have transferred so as to apply to myself and A·pol′los for <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>good, that in our case <span class="smcap">YOU </span>may learn the rule: “Do not go beyond the things that are written,” in order that <span class="smcap">YOU </span>may not be puffed up individually in favor of the one against the other. <a id="chapter4_verse7"></a><b><sup>7 </sup></b>For who makes you to differ from another? Indeed, what do you have that you did not receive? If, now, you did indeed receive it, why do you boast as though you did not receive it?</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter4_verse8"></a><b><sup>8 </sup></b>Y<span class="smcap">OU </span>men already have <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>fill, do <span class="smcap">YOU</span>? Y<span class="smcap">OU </span>are rich already, are <span class="smcap">YOU</span>? Y<span class="smcap">OU </span>have begun ruling as kings without us, have <span class="smcap">YOU</span>? And I wish indeed that <span class="smcap">YOU </span>had begun ruling as kings, that we also might rule with <span class="smcap">YOU </span>as kings. <a id="chapter4_verse9"></a><b><sup>9 </sup></b>For it seems to me that God has put us the apostles last on exhibition as men appointed to death, because we have become a theatrical spectacle to the world, and to angels, and to men. <a id="chapter4_verse10"></a><b><sup>10 </sup></b>We are fools because of Christ, but <span class="smcap">YOU </span>are discreet in Christ; we are weak, but <span class="smcap">YOU </span>are strong; <span class="smcap">YOU </span>are in good repute, but we are in dishonor. <a id="chapter4_verse11"></a><b><sup>11 </sup></b>Down to this very hour we continue to hunger and also to thirst and to be scantily clothed and to be knocked about and to be homeless <a id="chapter4_verse12"></a><b><sup>12 </sup></b>and to toil, working with our own hands. When being reviled, we bless; when being persecuted, we bear up; <a id="chapter4_verse13"></a><b><sup>13 </sup></b>when being defamed, we entreat; we have become as the refuse of the world, the offscouring of all things, until now.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter4_verse14"></a><b><sup>14 </sup></b>I am writing these things, not to shame <span class="smcap">YOU</span>, but to admonish <span class="smcap">YOU </span>as my beloved children. <a id="chapter4_verse15"></a><b><sup>15 </sup></b>For though <span class="smcap">YOU </span>may have ten thousand tutors in Christ, <span class="smcap">YOU </span>certainly do not have many fathers; for in Christ Jesus I have become <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>father through the good news. <a id="chapter4_verse16"></a><b><sup>16 </sup></b>I entreat <span class="smcap">YOU</span>, therefore, become imitators of me. <a id="chapter4_verse17"></a><b><sup>17 </sup></b>That is why I am sending Timothy to <span class="smcap">YOU</span>, as he is my beloved and faithful child in the Lord; and he will put <span class="smcap">YOU </span>in mind of my methods in connection with Christ Jesus, just as I am teaching everywhere in every congregation.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter4_verse18"></a><b><sup>18 </sup></b>Some are puffed up as though I were in fact not coming to <span class="smcap">YOU</span>. <a id="chapter4_verse19"></a><b><sup>19 </sup></b>But I will come to <span class="smcap">YOU </span>shortly, if Jehovah wills, and I shall get to know, not the speech of those who are puffed up, but their power. <a id="chapter4_verse20"></a><b><sup>20 </sup></b>For the kingdom of God lies not in speech, but in power. <a id="chapter4_verse21"></a><b><sup>21 </sup></b>What do <span class="smcap">YOU </span>want? Shall I come to <span class="smcap">YOU </span>with a rod, or with love and mildness of spirit?</p>
</body>
</html>
