<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="application/xhtml+xml; charset=utf-8" />
<title>2 Corinthians</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/bi12.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
<p class="st"><a id="page1440"></a><b>The Second to the Corinthians</b></p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter1"></a><a id="chapter1_verse1"></a><span class="w_ch"><b>1 </b></span>Paul, an apostle of Christ Jesus through God’s will, and Timothy our brother to the congregation of God that is in Corinth, together with all the holy ones who are in all of A·cha′ia:</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter1_verse2"></a><b><sup>2 </sup></b>May <span class="smcap">YOU </span>have undeserved kindness and peace from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter1_verse3"></a><b><sup>3 </sup></b>Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, the Father of tender mercies and the God of all comfort, <a id="chapter1_verse4"></a><b><sup>4 </sup></b>who comforts us in all our tribulation, that we may be able to comfort those in any sort of tribulation through the comfort with which we ourselves are being comforted by God. <a id="chapter1_verse5"></a><b><sup>5 </sup></b>For just as the sufferings for the Christ abound in us, so the comfort we get also abounds through the Christ. <a id="chapter1_verse6"></a><b><sup>6 </sup></b>Now whether we are in tribulation, it is for <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>comfort and salvation; or whether we are being comforted, it is for <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>comfort that operates to make <span class="smcap">YOU </span>endure the same sufferings that we also suffer. <a id="chapter1_verse7"></a><b><sup>7 </sup></b>And so our hope for <span class="smcap">YOU </span>is unwavering, knowing as we do that, just as <span class="smcap">YOU </span>are sharers of the sufferings, in the same way <span class="smcap">YOU </span>will also share the comfort.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter1_verse8"></a><b><sup>8 </sup></b>For we do not wish <span class="smcap">YOU </span>to be ignorant, brothers, about the tribulation that happened to us in the district of Asia, that we were under extreme pressure beyond our strength, so that we were very uncertain even of our lives. <a id="chapter1_verse9"></a><b><sup>9 </sup></b>In fact, we felt within ourselves that we had received the sentence of death. This was that we might have our trust, not in ourselves, but in the God who raises up the dead. <a id="chapter1_verse10"></a><b><sup>10 </sup></b>From such a great thing as <a id="page1441"></a>death he did rescue us and will rescue us; and our hope is in him that he will also rescue us further. <a id="chapter1_verse11"></a><b><sup>11 </sup></b>Y<span class="smcap">OU </span>also can help along by <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>supplication for us, in order that thanks may be given by many in our behalf for what is kindly given to us due to many prayerful faces.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter1_verse12"></a><b><sup>12 </sup></b>For the thing we boast of is this, to which our conscience bears witness, that with holiness and godly sincerity, not with fleshly wisdom but with God’s undeserved kindness, we have conducted ourselves in the world, but more especially toward <span class="smcap">YOU</span>. <a id="chapter1_verse13"></a><b><sup>13 </sup></b>For we are really not writing <span class="smcap">YOU </span>things except those which <span class="smcap">YOU </span>well know or also recognize; and which I hope <span class="smcap">YOU </span>will continue to recognize to the end, <a id="chapter1_verse14"></a><b><sup>14 </sup></b>just as <span class="smcap">YOU </span>have also recognized, to an extent, that we are a cause for <span class="smcap">YOU </span>to boast, just as <span class="smcap">YOU </span>will also be for us in the day of our Lord Jesus.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter1_verse15"></a><b><sup>15 </sup></b>So, with this confidence, I was intending before to come to <span class="smcap">YOU</span>, that <span class="smcap">YOU </span>might have a second occasion for joy, <a id="chapter1_verse16"></a><b><sup>16 </sup></b>and after a stopover with <span class="smcap">YOU </span>to go to Mac·e·do′ni·a, and to come back from Mac·e·do′ni·a to <span class="smcap">YOU </span>and be conducted partway by <span class="smcap">YOU </span>to Ju·de′a. <a id="chapter1_verse17"></a><b><sup>17 </sup></b>Well, when I had such an intention, I did not indulge in any lightness, did I? Or what things I purpose, do I purpose them according to the flesh, that with me there should be “Yes, Yes” and “No, No”? <a id="chapter1_verse18"></a><b><sup>18 </sup></b>But God can be relied upon that our speech addressed to <span class="smcap">YOU </span>is not Yes and yet No. <a id="chapter1_verse19"></a><b><sup>19 </sup></b>For the Son of God, Christ Jesus, who was preached among <span class="smcap">YOU </span>through us, that is, through me and Sil·va′nus and Timothy, did not become Yes and yet No, but Yes has become Yes in his case. <a id="chapter1_verse20"></a><b><sup>20 </sup></b>For no matter how many the promises of God are, they have become Yes by means of him. Therefore also through him is the “Amen” said to God for glory through us. <a id="chapter1_verse21"></a><b><sup>21 </sup></b>But he who guarantees that <span class="smcap">YOU </span>and we belong to Christ and he who has anointed us is God. <a id="chapter1_verse22"></a><b><sup>22 </sup></b>He has also put his seal upon us and has given us the token of what is to come, that is, the spirit, in our hearts.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter1_verse23"></a><b><sup>23 </sup></b>Now I call upon God as a witness against my own soul that it is to spare <span class="smcap">YOU </span>that I have not yet come to Corinth. <a id="chapter1_verse24"></a><b><sup>24 </sup></b>Not that we are the masters over <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>faith, but we are fellow workers for <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>joy, for it is by <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>faith that <span class="smcap">YOU </span>are standing.</p>
</body>
</html>
