<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="application/xhtml+xml; charset=utf-8" />
<title>2 Corinthians 9</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/bi12.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
<p class="w_biblebookname">2 Corinthians</p><p class="sb"><a id="chapter9"></a><a id="chapter9_verse1"></a><span class="w_ch"><b>9 </b></span>Now concerning the ministry that is for the holy ones, it is superfluous for me to write <span class="smcap">YOU</span>, <a id="chapter9_verse2"></a><b><sup>2 </sup></b>for I know <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>readiness of mind of which I am boasting to the Mac·e·do′ni·ans about <span class="smcap">YOU</span>, that A·cha′ia has stood ready now for a year, and <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>zeal has stirred up the majority of them. <a id="chapter9_verse3"></a><b><sup>3 </sup></b>But I am sending the brothers, that our boasting about <span class="smcap">YOU </span>might not prove empty in this respect, but that <span class="smcap">YOU </span>may really be ready, just as I used to say <span class="smcap">YOU </span>would be. <a id="chapter9_verse4"></a><b><sup>4 </sup></b>Otherwise, in some way, if Mac·e·do′ni·ans should come with me and find <span class="smcap">YOU </span>not ready, we—not to say <span class="smcap">YOU</span>—should be put to shame in this assurance of ours. <a id="chapter9_verse5"></a><b><sup>5 </sup></b>Therefore I thought it necessary to encourage the brothers to come to <span class="smcap">YOU </span>in advance and to get ready in advance <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>bountiful gift previously promised, that thus this might be ready as a bountiful gift and not as something extorted.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter9_verse6"></a><b><sup>6 </sup></b>But as to this, he that sows sparingly will also reap sparingly; and he that sows bountifully will also reap bountifully. <a id="chapter9_verse7"></a><b><sup>7 </sup></b>Let each one do just as he has resolved in his heart, not grudgingly or under compulsion, for God loves a cheerful giver.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter9_verse8"></a><b><sup>8 </sup></b>God, moreover, is able to make all his undeserved kindness abound toward <span class="smcap">YOU</span>, that, while <span class="smcap">YOU </span>always have full self-sufficiency in everything, <span class="smcap">YOU </span>may have plenty for every good work. <a id="chapter9_verse9"></a><b><sup>9 </sup></b>(Just as it is written: “He has distributed widely, he has given to the poor ones, his righteousness continues forever.” <a id="chapter9_verse10"></a><b><sup>10 </sup></b>Now he that abundantly supplies seed to the sower and bread for eating will supply and multiply the seed for <span class="smcap">YOU </span>to sow and will increase the products of <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>righteousness.) <a id="chapter9_verse11"></a><b><sup>11 </sup></b>In everything <span class="smcap">YOU </span>are being enriched for every sort of generosity, which produces through us an expression of thanks to God; <a id="chapter9_verse12"></a><b><sup>12 </sup></b>because the ministry of this public service is not only to supply abundantly the wants of the holy ones but also to be rich with many expressions <a id="page1448"></a>of thanks to God. <a id="chapter9_verse13"></a><b><sup>13 </sup></b>Through the proof that this ministry gives, they glorify God because <span class="smcap">YOU </span>are submissive to the good news about the Christ, as <span class="smcap">YOU </span>publicly declare <span class="smcap">YOU </span>are, and because <span class="smcap">YOU </span>are generous in <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>contribution to them and to all; <a id="chapter9_verse14"></a><b><sup>14 </sup></b>and with supplication for <span class="smcap">YOU </span>they long for <span class="smcap">YOU </span>because of the surpassing undeserved kindness of God upon <span class="smcap">YOU</span>.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter9_verse15"></a><b><sup>15 </sup></b>Thanks be to God for his indescribable free gift.</p>
</body>
</html>
