<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="application/xhtml+xml; charset=utf-8" />
<title>2 Corinthians 13</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/bi12.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
<p class="w_biblebookname">2 Corinthians</p><p class="sb"><a id="chapter13"></a><a id="chapter13_verse1"></a><span class="w_ch"><b>13 </b></span>This is the third time I am coming to <span class="smcap">YOU</span>. “At the mouth of two witnesses or of three every matter must be established.” <a id="chapter13_verse2"></a><b><sup>2 </sup></b>I have said previously and, as if present the second time and yet absent now, I say in advance to those who have sinned before and to all the rest, that if ever I come again I will not spare, <a id="chapter13_verse3"></a><b><sup>3 </sup></b>since <span class="smcap">YOU </span>are seeking a proof of Christ speaking in me, Christ who is not weak toward <span class="smcap">YOU </span>but is powerful among <span class="smcap">YOU</span>. <a id="chapter13_verse4"></a><b><sup>4 </sup></b>True, indeed, he was impaled owing to weakness, but he is alive owing to God’s power. True, also, we are weak with him, but we shall live together with him owing to God’s power toward <span class="smcap">YOU</span>.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter13_verse5"></a><b><sup>5 </sup></b>Keep testing whether <span class="smcap">YOU </span>are in the faith, keep proving what <span class="smcap">YOU </span>yourselves are. Or do <span class="smcap">YOU </span>not recognize that Jesus Christ is in union with <span class="smcap">YOU</span>? Unless <span class="smcap">YOU </span>are disapproved. <a id="chapter13_verse6"></a><b><sup>6 </sup></b>I truly hope <span class="smcap">YOU </span>will come to know we are not disapproved.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter13_verse7"></a><b><sup>7 </sup></b>Now we pray to God that <span class="smcap">YOU </span>may do nothing wrong, not that we ourselves may appear approved, but that <span class="smcap">YOU </span>may be doing what is fine, though we ourselves may appear disapproved. <a id="chapter13_verse8"></a><b><sup>8 </sup></b>For we can do nothing against the truth, but only for the truth. <a id="chapter13_verse9"></a><b><sup>9 </sup></b>We certainly rejoice whenever we are weak but <span class="smcap">YOU </span>are powerful; and for this we are praying, <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>being readjusted. <a id="chapter13_verse10"></a><b><sup>10 </sup></b>That is why I write these things while absent, that, when I am present, I may not act with severity according to the authority that the Lord gave me, to build up and not to tear down.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter13_verse11"></a><b><sup>11 </sup></b>Finally, brothers, continue to rejoice, to be readjusted, to be comforted, to think in agreement, to live peaceably; and the God of love and of peace will be with <span class="smcap">YOU</span>. <a id="chapter13_verse12"></a><b><sup>12 </sup></b>Greet one another with a holy kiss. <a id="chapter13_verse13"></a><b><sup>13 </sup></b>All the holy ones send <span class="smcap">YOU </span>their greetings.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter13_verse14"></a><b><sup>14 </sup></b>The undeserved kindness of the Lord Jesus Christ and the love of God and the sharing in the holy spirit be with all of <span class="smcap">YOU</span>.</p>
</body>
</html>
