<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="application/xhtml+xml; charset=utf-8" />
<title>2 Corinthians 6</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/bi12.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
<p class="w_biblebookname">2 Corinthians</p><p class="sb"><a id="chapter6"></a><a id="chapter6_verse1"></a><span class="w_ch"><b>6 </b></span>Working together with him, we also entreat <span class="smcap">YOU </span>not to accept the undeserved kindness of God and miss its purpose. <a id="chapter6_verse2"></a><b><sup>2 </sup></b>For he says: “In an acceptable time I heard you, and in a day of salvation I helped you.” Look! Now is the especially acceptable time. Look! Now is the day of salvation.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter6_verse3"></a><b><sup>3 </sup></b>In no way are we giving any cause for stumbling, that our ministry might not be found fault with; <a id="chapter6_verse4"></a><b><sup>4 </sup></b>but in every way <a id="page1445"></a>we recommend ourselves as God’s ministers, by the endurance of much, by tribulations, by cases of need, by difficulties, <a id="chapter6_verse5"></a><b><sup>5 </sup></b>by beatings, by prisons, by disorders, by labors, by sleepless nights, by times without food, <a id="chapter6_verse6"></a><b><sup>6 </sup></b>by purity, by knowledge, by long-suffering, by kindness, by holy spirit, by love free from hypocrisy, <a id="chapter6_verse7"></a><b><sup>7 </sup></b>by truthful speech, by God’s power; through the weapons of righteousness on the right hand and on the left, <a id="chapter6_verse8"></a><b><sup>8 </sup></b>through glory and dishonor, through bad report and good report; as deceivers and yet truthful, <a id="chapter6_verse9"></a><b><sup>9 </sup></b>as being unknown and yet being recognized, as dying and yet, look! we live, as disciplined and yet not delivered to death, <a id="chapter6_verse10"></a><b><sup>10 </sup></b>as sorrowing but ever rejoicing, as poor but making many rich, as having nothing and yet possessing all things.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter6_verse11"></a><b><sup>11 </sup></b>Our mouth has been opened to <span class="smcap">YOU</span>, Corinthians, our heart has widened out. <a id="chapter6_verse12"></a><b><sup>12 </sup></b>Y<span class="smcap">OU </span>are not cramped for room within us, but <span class="smcap">YOU </span>are cramped for room in <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>own tender affections. <a id="chapter6_verse13"></a><b><sup>13 </sup></b>So, as a recompense in return—I speak as to children—<span class="smcap">YOU</span>, too, widen out.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter6_verse14"></a><b><sup>14 </sup></b>Do not become unevenly yoked with unbelievers. For what fellowship do righteousness and lawlessness have? Or what sharing does light have with darkness? <a id="chapter6_verse15"></a><b><sup>15 </sup></b>Further, what harmony is there between Christ and Be′li·al? Or what portion does a faithful person have with an unbeliever? <a id="chapter6_verse16"></a><b><sup>16 </sup></b>And what agreement does God’s temple have with idols? For we are a temple of a living God; just as God said: “I shall reside among them and walk among them, and I shall be their God, and they will be my people.” <a id="chapter6_verse17"></a><b><sup>17 </sup></b>“‘Therefore get out from among them, and separate yourselves,’ says Jehovah, ‘and quit touching the unclean thing’”; “‘and I will take <span class="smcap">YOU </span>in.’” <a id="chapter6_verse18"></a><b><sup>18 </sup></b>“‘And I shall be a father to <span class="smcap">YOU</span>, and <span class="smcap">YOU </span>will be sons and daughters to me,’ says Jehovah the Almighty.”</p>
</body>
</html>
