<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="application/xhtml+xml; charset=utf-8" />
<title>Galatians</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/bi12.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
<p class="st"><a id="page1452"></a><b>To the Galatians</b></p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter1"></a><a id="chapter1_verse1"></a><span class="w_ch"><b>1 </b></span>Paul, an apostle, neither from men nor through a man, but through Jesus Christ and God the Father, who raised him up from the dead, <a id="chapter1_verse2"></a><b><sup>2 </sup></b>and all the brothers with me, to the congregations of Ga·la′ti·a:</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter1_verse3"></a><b><sup>3 </sup></b>May <span class="smcap">YOU </span>have undeserved kindness and peace from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ. <a id="chapter1_verse4"></a><b><sup>4 </sup></b>He gave himself for our sins that he might deliver us from the present wicked system of things according to the will of our God and Father, <a id="chapter1_verse5"></a><b><sup>5 </sup></b>to whom be the glory forever and ever. Amen.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter1_verse6"></a><b><sup>6 </sup></b>I marvel that <span class="smcap">YOU </span>are being so quickly removed from the One who called <span class="smcap">YOU </span>with Christ’s undeserved kindness over to another sort of good news. <a id="chapter1_verse7"></a><b><sup>7 </sup></b>But it is not another; only there are certain ones who are causing <span class="smcap">YOU </span>trouble and wanting to pervert the good news about the Christ. <a id="chapter1_verse8"></a><b><sup>8 </sup></b>However, even if we or an angel out of heaven were to declare to <span class="smcap">YOU </span>as good news something beyond what we declared to <span class="smcap">YOU </span>as good news, let him be accursed. <a id="chapter1_verse9"></a><b><sup>9 </sup></b>As we have said above, I also now say again, Whoever it is that is declaring to <span class="smcap">YOU </span>as good news something beyond what <span class="smcap">YOU </span>accepted, let him be accursed.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter1_verse10"></a><b><sup>10 </sup></b>Is it, in fact, men I am now trying to persuade or God? Or am I seeking to please men? If I were yet pleasing men, I would not be Christ’s slave. <a id="chapter1_verse11"></a><b><sup>11 </sup></b>For I put <span class="smcap">YOU </span>on notice, brothers, that the good news which was declared by me as good news is not something human; <a id="chapter1_verse12"></a><b><sup>12 </sup></b>for neither did I receive it from man, nor was I taught it, except through revelation by Jesus Christ.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter1_verse13"></a><b><sup>13 </sup></b>Y<span class="smcap">OU</span>, of course, heard about my conduct formerly in Ju′da·ism, that to the point of excess I kept on persecuting the congregation of God and devastating it, <a id="chapter1_verse14"></a><b><sup>14 </sup></b>and I was making greater progress in Ju′da·ism than many of my own age in my race, as I was far more zealous for the traditions of my fathers. <a id="chapter1_verse15"></a><b><sup>15 </sup></b>But when God, who separated me from my mother’s womb and called me through his undeserved kindness, thought good <a id="chapter1_verse16"></a><b><sup>16 </sup></b>to reveal his Son in connection with me, that I might declare the good news about him to the nations, I did not go at once into conference with flesh and blood. <a id="chapter1_verse17"></a><b><sup>17 </sup></b>Neither did I go up to Jerusalem to those who were apostles previous to me, but I went off into Arabia, and I came back again to Damascus.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter1_verse18"></a><b><sup>18 </sup></b>Then three years later I went up to Jerusalem to visit Ce′phas, and I stayed with him for fifteen days. <a id="chapter1_verse19"></a><b><sup>19 </sup></b>But I saw no one else of the apostles, only James the brother of the Lord. <a id="chapter1_verse20"></a><b><sup>20 </sup></b>Now as to the things I am writing <span class="smcap">YOU</span>, look! in the sight of God, I am not lying.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter1_verse21"></a><b><sup>21 </sup></b>After that I went into the regions of Syria and of Ci·li′cia. <a id="chapter1_verse22"></a><b><sup>22 </sup></b>But I was unknown by face to the congregations of Ju·de′a that were in union with Christ; <a id="chapter1_verse23"></a><b><sup>23 </sup></b>they only used to hear: “The man that formerly persecuted us is now declaring the good news about the faith which he formerly devastated.” <a id="chapter1_verse24"></a><b><sup>24 </sup></b>So they began glorifying God because of me.</p>
</body>
</html>
