<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="application/xhtml+xml; charset=utf-8" />
<title>Ephesians</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/bi12.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
<p class="st"><a id="page1458"></a><b>To the Ephesians</b></p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter1"></a><a id="chapter1_verse1"></a><span class="w_ch"><b>1 </b></span>Paul, an apostle of Christ Jesus through God’s will, to the holy ones who are in Eph′e·sus and faithful ones in union with Christ Jesus:</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter1_verse2"></a><b><sup>2 </sup></b>May <span class="smcap">YOU </span>have undeserved kindness and peace from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter1_verse3"></a><b><sup>3 </sup></b>Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, for he has blessed us with every spiritual blessing in the heavenly places in union with Christ, <a id="chapter1_verse4"></a><b><sup>4 </sup></b>just as he chose us in union with him before the founding of the world, that we should be holy and without blemish before him in love. <a id="chapter1_verse5"></a><b><sup>5 </sup></b>For he foreordained us to the adoption through Jesus Christ as sons to himself, according to the good pleasure of his will, <a id="chapter1_verse6"></a><b><sup>6 </sup></b>in praise of his glorious undeserved kindness which he kindly conferred upon us by means of his loved one. <a id="chapter1_verse7"></a><b><sup>7 </sup></b>By means of him we have the release by ransom through the blood of that one, yes, the forgiveness of our trespasses, according to the riches of his undeserved kindness.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter1_verse8"></a><b><sup>8 </sup></b>This he caused to abound toward us in all wisdom and good sense, <a id="chapter1_verse9"></a><b><sup>9 </sup></b>in that he made known to us the sacred secret of his will. It is according to his good pleasure which he purposed in himself <a id="chapter1_verse10"></a><b><sup>10 </sup></b>for an administration at the full limit of the appointed times, namely, to gather all things together again in the Christ, the things in the heavens and the things on the earth. Yes, in him, <a id="chapter1_verse11"></a><b><sup>11 </sup></b>in union with whom we were also assigned as heirs, in that we were foreordained according to the purpose of him who operates all things according to the way his will counsels, <a id="chapter1_verse12"></a><b><sup>12 </sup></b>that we should serve for the praise of his glory, we who have been first to hope in the Christ. <a id="chapter1_verse13"></a><b><sup>13 </sup></b>But <span class="smcap">YOU </span>also hoped in him after <span class="smcap">YOU </span>heard the word of truth, the good news about <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>salvation. By means of him also, after <span class="smcap">YOU </span>believed, <span class="smcap">YOU </span>were sealed with the promised holy spirit, <a id="chapter1_verse14"></a><b><sup>14 </sup></b>which is a token in advance of our inheritance, for the purpose of releasing by a ransom God’s own possession, to his glorious praise.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter1_verse15"></a><b><sup>15 </sup></b>That is why I also, since I have heard of the faith <span class="smcap">YOU </span><a id="page1459"></a>have in the Lord Jesus and toward all the holy ones, <a id="chapter1_verse16"></a><b><sup>16 </sup></b>do not cease giving thanks for <span class="smcap">YOU</span>. I continue mentioning <span class="smcap">YOU </span>in my prayers, <a id="chapter1_verse17"></a><b><sup>17 </sup></b>that the God of our Lord Jesus Christ, the Father of glory, may give <span class="smcap">YOU </span>a spirit of wisdom and of revelation in the accurate knowledge of him; <a id="chapter1_verse18"></a><b><sup>18 </sup></b>the eyes of <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>heart having been enlightened, that <span class="smcap">YOU </span>may know what is the hope to which he called <span class="smcap">YOU</span>, what the glorious riches are which he holds as an inheritance for the holy ones, <a id="chapter1_verse19"></a><b><sup>19 </sup></b>and what the surpassing greatness of his power is toward us believers. It is according to the operation of the mightiness of his strength, <a id="chapter1_verse20"></a><b><sup>20 </sup></b>with which he has operated in the case of the Christ when he raised him up from the dead and seated him at his right hand in the heavenly places, <a id="chapter1_verse21"></a><b><sup>21 </sup></b>far above every government and authority and power and lordship and every name named, not only in this system of things, but also in that to come. <a id="chapter1_verse22"></a><b><sup>22 </sup></b>He also subjected all things under his feet, and made him head over all things to the congregation, <a id="chapter1_verse23"></a><b><sup>23 </sup></b>which is his body, the fullness of him who fills up all things in all.</p>
</body>
</html>
