<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="application/xhtml+xml; charset=utf-8" />
<title>Ephesians 6</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/bi12.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
<p class="w_biblebookname">Ephesians</p><p class="sb"><a id="chapter6"></a><a id="chapter6_verse1"></a><span class="w_ch"><b>6 </b></span>Children, be obedient to <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>parents in union with the Lord, for this is righteous: <a id="chapter6_verse2"></a><b><sup>2 </sup></b>“Honor your father and your mother”; which is the first command with a promise: <a id="chapter6_verse3"></a><b><sup>3 </sup></b>“That it may go well with you and you may endure a long time on the earth.” <a id="chapter6_verse4"></a><b><sup>4 </sup></b>And <span class="smcap">YOU</span>, fathers, do not be irritating <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>children, but go on bringing them up in the discipline and mental-regulating of Jehovah.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter6_verse5"></a><b><sup>5 </sup></b>Y<span class="smcap">OU </span>slaves, be obedient to those who are <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>masters in a fleshly sense, with fear and trembling in the sincerity of <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>hearts, as to the Christ, <a id="chapter6_verse6"></a><b><sup>6 </sup></b>not by way of eye-service as men pleasers, but as Christ’s slaves, doing the will of God whole-souled. <a id="chapter6_verse7"></a><b><sup>7 </sup></b>Be slaves with good inclinations, as to Jehovah, and not to men, <a id="chapter6_verse8"></a><b><sup>8 </sup></b>for <span class="smcap">YOU </span>know that each one, whatever good he may do, will receive this back from Jehovah, whether he be slave or freeman. <a id="chapter6_verse9"></a><b><sup>9 </sup></b>Also, <span class="smcap">YOU </span>masters, keep doing the same things to them, letting up on the threatening, for <span class="smcap">YOU </span>know that the Master of both them and <span class="smcap">YOU </span>is in the heavens, and there is no partiality with him.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter6_verse10"></a><b><sup>10 </sup></b>Finally, go on acquiring power in the Lord and in the mightiness of his strength. <a id="chapter6_verse11"></a><b><sup>11 </sup></b>Put on the complete suit <a id="page1464"></a>of armor from God that <span class="smcap">YOU </span>may be able to stand firm against the machinations of the Devil; <a id="chapter6_verse12"></a><b><sup>12 </sup></b>because we have a wrestling, not against blood and flesh, but against the governments, against the authorities, against the world rulers of this darkness, against the wicked spirit forces in the heavenly places. <a id="chapter6_verse13"></a><b><sup>13 </sup></b>On this account take up the complete suit of armor from God, that <span class="smcap">YOU </span>may be able to resist in the wicked day and, after <span class="smcap">YOU </span>have done all things thoroughly, to stand firm.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter6_verse14"></a><b><sup>14 </sup></b>Stand firm, therefore, with <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>loins girded about with truth, and having on the breastplate of righteousness, <a id="chapter6_verse15"></a><b><sup>15 </sup></b>and with <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>feet shod with the equipment of the good news of peace. <a id="chapter6_verse16"></a><b><sup>16 </sup></b>Above all things, take up the large shield of faith, with which <span class="smcap">YOU </span>will be able to quench all the wicked one’s burning missiles. <a id="chapter6_verse17"></a><b><sup>17 </sup></b>Also, accept the helmet of salvation, and the sword of the spirit, that is, God’s word, <a id="chapter6_verse18"></a><b><sup>18 </sup></b>while with every form of prayer and supplication <span class="smcap">YOU </span>carry on prayer on every occasion in spirit. And to that end keep awake with all constancy and with supplication in behalf of all the holy ones, <a id="chapter6_verse19"></a><b><sup>19 </sup></b>also for me, that ability to speak may be given me with the opening of my mouth, with freeness of speech to make known the sacred secret of the good news, <a id="chapter6_verse20"></a><b><sup>20 </sup></b>for which I am acting as an ambassador in chains; that I may speak in connection with it with boldness as I ought to speak.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter6_verse21"></a><b><sup>21 </sup></b>Now in order that <span class="smcap">YOU </span>may also know about my affairs, as to how I am doing, Tych′i·cus, a beloved brother and faithful minister in the Lord, will make everything known to <span class="smcap">YOU</span>. <a id="chapter6_verse22"></a><b><sup>22 </sup></b>I am sending him to <span class="smcap">YOU </span>for this very purpose, that <span class="smcap">YOU </span>may know of the things having to do with us and that he may comfort <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>hearts.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter6_verse23"></a><b><sup>23 </sup></b>May the brothers have peace and love with faith from God the Father and the Lord Jesus Christ. <a id="chapter6_verse24"></a><b><sup>24 </sup></b>May the undeserved kindness be with all those loving our Lord Jesus Christ in incorruptness.</p>
</body>
</html>
