<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="application/xhtml+xml; charset=utf-8" />
<title>Philippians 2</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/bi12.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
<p class="w_biblebookname">Philippians</p><p class="sb"><a id="page1466"></a><a id="chapter2"></a><a id="chapter2_verse1"></a><span class="w_ch"><b>2 </b></span>If, then, there is any encouragement in Christ, if any consolation of love, if any sharing of spirit, if any tender affections and compassions, <a id="chapter2_verse2"></a><b><sup>2 </sup></b>make my joy full in that <span class="smcap">YOU </span>are of the same mind and have the same love, being joined together in soul, holding the one thought in mind, <a id="chapter2_verse3"></a><b><sup>3 </sup></b>doing nothing out of contentiousness or out of egotism, but with lowliness of mind considering that the others are superior to <span class="smcap">YOU</span>, <a id="chapter2_verse4"></a><b><sup>4 </sup></b>keeping an eye, not in personal interest upon just <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>own matters, but also in personal interest upon those of the others.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter2_verse5"></a><b><sup>5 </sup></b>Keep this mental attitude in <span class="smcap">YOU </span>that was also in Christ Jesus, <a id="chapter2_verse6"></a><b><sup>6 </sup></b>who, although he was existing in God’s form, gave no consideration to a seizure, namely, that he should be equal to God. <a id="chapter2_verse7"></a><b><sup>7 </sup></b>No, but he emptied himself and took a slave’s form and came to be in the likeness of men. <a id="chapter2_verse8"></a><b><sup>8 </sup></b>More than that, when he found himself in fashion as a man, he humbled himself and became obedient as far as death, yes, death on a torture stake. <a id="chapter2_verse9"></a><b><sup>9 </sup></b>For this very reason also God exalted him to a superior position and kindly gave him the name that is above every other name, <a id="chapter2_verse10"></a><b><sup>10 </sup></b>so that in the name of Jesus every knee should bend of those in heaven and those on earth and those under the ground, <a id="chapter2_verse11"></a><b><sup>11 </sup></b>and every tongue should openly acknowledge that Jesus Christ is Lord to the glory of God the Father.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter2_verse12"></a><b><sup>12 </sup></b>Consequently, my beloved ones, in the way that <span class="smcap">YOU </span>have always obeyed, not during my presence only, but now much more readily during my absence, keep working out <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>own salvation with fear and trembling; <a id="chapter2_verse13"></a><b><sup>13 </sup></b>for God is the one that, for the sake of his good pleasure, is acting within <span class="smcap">YOU </span>in order for <span class="smcap">YOU </span>both to will and to act. <a id="chapter2_verse14"></a><b><sup>14 </sup></b>Keep doing all things free from murmurings and arguments, <a id="chapter2_verse15"></a><b><sup>15 </sup></b>that <span class="smcap">YOU </span>may come to be blameless and innocent, children of God without a blemish in among a crooked and twisted generation, among whom <span class="smcap">YOU </span>are shining as illuminators in the world, <a id="chapter2_verse16"></a><b><sup>16 </sup></b>keeping a tight grip on the word of life, that I may have cause for exultation in Christ’s day, that I did not run in vain or work hard in vain. <a id="chapter2_verse17"></a><b><sup>17 </sup></b>Notwithstanding, even if I am being poured out like a drink offering upon the sacrifice and public service to which faith has led <span class="smcap">YOU</span>, I am glad and I rejoice with all of <span class="smcap">YOU</span>. <a id="chapter2_verse18"></a><b><sup>18 </sup></b>Now in the same way <span class="smcap">YOU </span>yourselves also be glad and rejoice with me.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter2_verse19"></a><b><sup>19 </sup></b>For my part I am hoping in the Lord Jesus to send Timothy to <span class="smcap">YOU </span>shortly, that I may be a cheerful soul when I get to know about the things pertaining to <span class="smcap">YOU</span>. <a id="chapter2_verse20"></a><b><sup>20 </sup></b>For I have no one else of a disposition like his who will genuinely care for the things pertaining to <span class="smcap">YOU</span>. <a id="chapter2_verse21"></a><b><sup>21 </sup></b>For all the others are seeking their own interests, not those of Christ Jesus. <a id="chapter2_verse22"></a><b><sup>22 </sup></b>But <span class="smcap">YOU </span>know the proof he gave of himself, that like a child with a father he slaved with me in furtherance of the good news. <a id="chapter2_verse23"></a><b><sup>23 </sup></b>This, therefore, is the man I am hoping to send just as soon as I have seen how things stand concerning me. <a id="chapter2_verse24"></a><b><sup>24 </sup></b>Indeed, I am confident in the Lord that I myself shall also come shortly.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter2_verse25"></a><b><sup>25 </sup></b>However, I consider it necessary to send to <span class="smcap">YOU </span>E·paph·ro·di′tus, my brother and fellow worker and fellow soldier, but <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>envoy and private servant for my need, <a id="chapter2_verse26"></a><b><sup>26 </sup></b>since he <a id="page1467"></a>is longing to see all of <span class="smcap">YOU </span>and is depressed because <span class="smcap">YOU </span>heard he had fallen sick. <a id="chapter2_verse27"></a><b><sup>27 </sup></b>Yes, indeed, he fell sick nearly to the point of death; but God had mercy on him, in fact, not only on him, but also on me, that I should not get grief upon grief. <a id="chapter2_verse28"></a><b><sup>28 </sup></b>Therefore with the greater haste I am sending him, that on seeing him <span class="smcap">YOU </span>may rejoice again and I may be the more free from grief. <a id="chapter2_verse29"></a><b><sup>29 </sup></b>Therefore give him the customary welcome in the Lord with all joy; and keep holding men of that sort dear, <a id="chapter2_verse30"></a><b><sup>30 </sup></b>because on account of the Lord’s work he came quite near to death, exposing his soul to danger, that he might fully make up for <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>not being here to render private service to me.</p>
</body>
</html>
