<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="application/xhtml+xml; charset=utf-8" />
<title>2 Thessalonians 3</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/bi12.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
<p class="w_biblebookname">2 Thessalonians</p><p class="sb"><a id="chapter3"></a><a id="chapter3_verse1"></a><span class="w_ch"><b>3 </b></span>Finally, brothers, carry on prayer for us, that the word of Jehovah may keep moving speedily and being glorified just as it is in fact with <span class="smcap">YOU</span>; <a id="chapter3_verse2"></a><b><sup>2 </sup></b>and that we may be delivered from harmful and wicked men, for faith is not a possession of all people. <a id="chapter3_verse3"></a><b><sup>3 </sup></b>But the Lord is faithful, and he will make <span class="smcap">YOU </span>firm and keep <span class="smcap">YOU </span>from the wicked one. <a id="chapter3_verse4"></a><b><sup>4 </sup></b>Moreover, we have confidence in the Lord regarding <span class="smcap">YOU</span>, that <span class="smcap">YOU </span>are doing and will go on doing the things we order. <a id="chapter3_verse5"></a><b><sup>5 </sup></b>May the Lord continue directing <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>hearts successfully <a id="page1479"></a>into the love of God and into the endurance for the Christ.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter3_verse6"></a><b><sup>6 </sup></b>Now we are giving <span class="smcap">YOU </span>orders, brothers, in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ, to withdraw from every brother walking disorderly and not according to the tradition <span class="smcap">YOU </span>received from us. <a id="chapter3_verse7"></a><b><sup>7 </sup></b>For <span class="smcap">YOU </span>yourselves know the way <span class="smcap">YOU </span>ought to imitate us, because we did not behave disorderly among <span class="smcap">YOU </span><a id="chapter3_verse8"></a><b><sup>8 </sup></b>nor did we eat food from anyone free. To the contrary, by labor and toil night and day we were working so as not to impose an expensive burden upon any one of <span class="smcap">YOU</span>. <a id="chapter3_verse9"></a><b><sup>9 </sup></b>Not that we do not have authority, but in order that we might offer ourselves as an example to <span class="smcap">YOU </span>to imitate us. <a id="chapter3_verse10"></a><b><sup>10 </sup></b>In fact, also, when we were with <span class="smcap">YOU</span>, we used to give <span class="smcap">YOU </span>this order: “If anyone does not want to work, neither let him eat.” <a id="chapter3_verse11"></a><b><sup>11 </sup></b>For we hear certain ones are walking disorderly among <span class="smcap">YOU</span>, not working at all but meddling with what does not concern them. <a id="chapter3_verse12"></a><b><sup>12 </sup></b>To such persons we give the order and exhortation in the Lord Jesus Christ that by working with quietness they should eat food they themselves earn.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter3_verse13"></a><b><sup>13 </sup></b>For <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>part, brothers, do not give up in doing right. <a id="chapter3_verse14"></a><b><sup>14 </sup></b>But if anyone is not obedient to our word through this letter, keep this one marked, stop associating with him, that he may become ashamed. <a id="chapter3_verse15"></a><b><sup>15 </sup></b>And yet do not be considering him as an enemy, but continue admonishing him as a brother.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter3_verse16"></a><b><sup>16 </sup></b>Now may the Lord of peace himself give <span class="smcap">YOU </span>peace constantly in every way. The Lord be with all of <span class="smcap">YOU</span>.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter3_verse17"></a><b><sup>17 </sup></b>Here is my greeting, Paul’s, in my own hand, which is a sign in every letter; this is the way I write.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter3_verse18"></a><b><sup>18 </sup></b>The undeserved kindness of our Lord Jesus Christ be with all of <span class="smcap">YOU</span>.</p>
</body>
</html>
