<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="application/xhtml+xml; charset=utf-8" />
<title>1 Timothy</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/bi12.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
<p class="st"><a id="page1479"></a><b>The First to Timothy</b></p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter1"></a><a id="chapter1_verse1"></a><span class="w_ch"><b>1 </b></span>Paul, an apostle of Christ Jesus under command of God our Savior and of Christ Jesus, our hope, <a id="chapter1_verse2"></a><b><sup>2 </sup></b>to Timothy, a genuine child in the faith:</p>
<p class="sb">May there be undeserved kindness, mercy, peace from God the Father and Christ Jesus our Lord.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter1_verse3"></a><b><sup>3 </sup></b>Just as I encouraged you to stay in Eph′e·sus when I was about to go my way into Mac·e·do′ni·a, so I do now, that you might command certain ones not to teach different doctrine, <a id="chapter1_verse4"></a><b><sup>4 </sup></b>nor to pay attention to false stories and to genealogies, which end up in nothing, but which furnish questions for research rather than a dispensing of anything by God in connection with faith. <a id="chapter1_verse5"></a><b><sup>5 </sup></b>Really the objective of this mandate is love out of a clean heart and out of a good conscience and out of faith without hypocrisy. <a id="chapter1_verse6"></a><b><sup>6 </sup></b>By deviating from these things certain ones have been turned aside into idle <a id="page1480"></a>talk, <a id="chapter1_verse7"></a><b><sup>7 </sup></b>wanting to be teachers of law, but not perceiving either the things they are saying or the things about which they are making strong assertions.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter1_verse8"></a><b><sup>8 </sup></b>Now we know that the Law is fine provided one handles it lawfully <a id="chapter1_verse9"></a><b><sup>9 </sup></b>in the knowledge of this fact, that law is promulgated, not for a righteous man, but for persons lawless and unruly, ungodly and sinners, lacking loving-kindness, and profane, murderers of fathers and murderers of mothers, manslayers, <a id="chapter1_verse10"></a><b><sup>10 </sup></b>fornicators, men who lie with males, kidnappers, liars, false swearers, and whatever other thing is in opposition to the healthful teaching <a id="chapter1_verse11"></a><b><sup>11 </sup></b>according to the glorious good news of the happy God, with which I was entrusted.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter1_verse12"></a><b><sup>12 </sup></b>I am grateful to Christ Jesus our Lord, who imparted power to me, because he considered me faithful by assigning me to a ministry, <a id="chapter1_verse13"></a><b><sup>13 </sup></b>although formerly I was a blasphemer and a persecutor and an insolent man. Nevertheless, I was shown mercy, because I was ignorant and acted with a lack of faith. <a id="chapter1_verse14"></a><b><sup>14 </sup></b>But the undeserved kindness of our Lord abounded exceedingly along with faith and love that is in connection with Christ Jesus. <a id="chapter1_verse15"></a><b><sup>15 </sup></b>Faithful and deserving of full acceptance is the saying that Christ Jesus came into the world to save sinners. Of these I am foremost. <a id="chapter1_verse16"></a><b><sup>16 </sup></b>Nevertheless, the reason why I was shown mercy was that by means of me as the foremost case Christ Jesus might demonstrate all his long-suffering for a sample of those who are going to rest their faith on him for everlasting life.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter1_verse17"></a><b><sup>17 </sup></b>Now to the King of eternity, incorruptible, invisible, the only God, be honor and glory forever and ever. Amen.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter1_verse18"></a><b><sup>18 </sup></b>This mandate I commit to you, child, Timothy, in accord with the predictions that led directly on to you, that by these you may go on waging the fine warfare; <a id="chapter1_verse19"></a><b><sup>19 </sup></b>holding faith and a good conscience, which some have thrust aside and have experienced shipwreck concerning their faith. <a id="chapter1_verse20"></a><b><sup>20 </sup></b>Hy·me·nae′us and Alexander belong to these, and I have handed them over to Satan that they may be taught by discipline not to blaspheme.</p>
</body>
</html>
