<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="application/xhtml+xml; charset=utf-8" />
<title>Hebrews</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/bi12.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
<p class="st"><a id="page1491"></a><b>To the Hebrews</b></p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter1"></a><a id="chapter1_verse1"></a><span class="w_ch"><b>1 </b></span>God, who long ago spoke on many occasions and in many ways to our forefathers by means of the prophets, <a id="chapter1_verse2"></a><b><sup>2 </sup></b>has at the end of these days spoken to us by means of a Son, whom he appointed heir of all things, and through whom he made the systems of things. <a id="chapter1_verse3"></a><b><sup>3 </sup></b>He is the reflection of his glory and the exact representation of his very being, and he sustains all things by the word of his power; and after he had made a purification for our sins he sat down on the right hand of the Majesty in lofty places. <a id="chapter1_verse4"></a><b><sup>4 </sup></b>So he has become better than the angels, to the extent that he has inherited a name more excellent than theirs.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter1_verse5"></a><b><sup>5 </sup></b>For example, to which one of the angels did he ever say: “You are my son; I, today, I have become your father”? And again: “I myself shall become his father, and he himself will become my son”? <a id="chapter1_verse6"></a><b><sup>6 </sup></b>But when he again brings his Firstborn into <a id="page1492"></a>the inhabited earth, he says: “And let all God’s angels do obeisance to him.”</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter1_verse7"></a><b><sup>7 </sup></b>Also, with reference to the angels he says: “And he makes his angels spirits, and his public servants a flame of fire.” <a id="chapter1_verse8"></a><b><sup>8 </sup></b>But with reference to the Son: “God is your throne forever and ever, and the scepter of your kingdom is the scepter of uprightness. <a id="chapter1_verse9"></a><b><sup>9 </sup></b>You loved righteousness, and you hated lawlessness. That is why God, your God, anointed you with the oil of exultation more than your partners.” <a id="chapter1_verse10"></a><b><sup>10 </sup></b>And: “You at the beginning, O Lord, laid the foundations of the earth itself, and the heavens are the works of your hands. <a id="chapter1_verse11"></a><b><sup>11 </sup></b>They themselves will perish, but you yourself are to remain continually; and just like an outer garment they will all grow old, <a id="chapter1_verse12"></a><b><sup>12 </sup></b>and you will wrap them up just as a cloak, as an outer garment; and they will be changed, but you are the same, and your years will never run out.”</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter1_verse13"></a><b><sup>13 </sup></b>But with reference to which one of the angels has he ever said: “Sit at my right hand, until I place your enemies as a stool for your feet”? <a id="chapter1_verse14"></a><b><sup>14 </sup></b>Are they not all spirits for public service, sent forth to minister for those who are going to inherit salvation?</p>
</body>
</html>
