<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="application/xhtml+xml; charset=utf-8" />
<title>James 4</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/bi12.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
<p class="w_biblebookname">James</p><p class="sb"><a id="chapter4"></a><a id="chapter4_verse1"></a><span class="w_ch"><b>4 </b></span>From what source are there wars and from what source are there fights among <span class="smcap">YOU</span>? Are they not from this source, namely, from <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>cravings for sensual pleasure that carry on a conflict in <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>members? <a id="chapter4_verse2"></a><b><sup>2 </sup></b>Y<span class="smcap">OU </span>desire, and yet <span class="smcap">YOU </span>do not have. Y<span class="smcap">OU </span>go on murdering and coveting, and yet <span class="smcap">YOU </span>are not able to obtain. Y<span class="smcap">OU </span>go on fighting and waging war. Y<span class="smcap">OU </span>do not have because of <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>not asking. <a id="chapter4_verse3"></a><b><sup>3 </sup></b>Y<span class="smcap">OU </span>do ask, and yet <span class="smcap">YOU </span>do not receive, because <span class="smcap">YOU </span>are asking for a wrong purpose, that <span class="smcap">YOU </span>may expend it upon <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>cravings for sensual pleasure.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter4_verse4"></a><b><sup>4 </sup></b>Adulteresses, do <span class="smcap">YOU </span>not know that the friendship with the world is enmity with God? Whoever, therefore, wants to be a friend of the world is constituting himself an enemy of God. <a id="chapter4_verse5"></a><b><sup>5 </sup></b>Or does it seem to <span class="smcap">YOU </span>that the scripture says to no purpose: “It is with a tendency to envy that the spirit which has taken up residence within us keeps longing”? <a id="chapter4_verse6"></a><b><sup>6 </sup></b>However, the undeserved kindness which he gives is greater. Hence it says: “God opposes the haughty ones, but he gives undeserved kindness to the humble ones.”</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter4_verse7"></a><b><sup>7 </sup></b>Subject yourselves, therefore, to God; but oppose the Devil, and he will flee from <span class="smcap">YOU</span>. <a id="chapter4_verse8"></a><b><sup>8 </sup></b>Draw close to God, and he will draw close to <span class="smcap">YOU</span>. Cleanse <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>hands, <span class="smcap">YOU </span>sinners, and purify <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>hearts, <span class="smcap">YOU </span>indecisive ones. <a id="chapter4_verse9"></a><b><sup>9 </sup></b>Give way to misery and mourn and weep. Let <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>laughter be turned into mourning, and <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>joy into dejection. <a id="chapter4_verse10"></a><b><sup>10 </sup></b>Humble yourselves in the eyes of Jehovah, and he will exalt <span class="smcap">YOU</span>.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter4_verse11"></a><b><sup>11 </sup></b>Quit speaking against one another, brothers. He who speaks against a brother or judges his brother speaks against law and judges law. Now if you judge law, you are, not a doer of law, but a judge. <a id="chapter4_verse12"></a><b><sup>12 </sup></b>One there is that is lawgiver and judge, he who is able to save and to destroy. But you, who are you to be judging your neighbor?</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter4_verse13"></a><b><sup>13 </sup></b>Come, now, <span class="smcap">YOU </span>who say: “Today or tomorrow we will journey to this city and will spend a year there, and we will engage in business and make profits,” <a id="chapter4_verse14"></a><b><sup>14 </sup></b>whereas <span class="smcap">YOU </span>do not know <a id="page1509"></a>what <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>life will be tomorrow. For <span class="smcap">YOU </span>are a mist appearing for a little while and then disappearing. <a id="chapter4_verse15"></a><b><sup>15 </sup></b>Instead, <span class="smcap">YOU </span>ought to say: “If Jehovah wills, we shall live and also do this or that.” <a id="chapter4_verse16"></a><b><sup>16 </sup></b>But now <span class="smcap">YOU </span>take pride in <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>self-assuming brags. All such taking of pride is wicked. <a id="chapter4_verse17"></a><b><sup>17 </sup></b>Therefore, if one knows how to do what is right and yet does not do it, it is a sin for him.</p>
</body>
</html>
