<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="application/xhtml+xml; charset=utf-8" />
<title>1 Peter 2</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/bi12.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
<p class="w_biblebookname">1 Peter</p><p class="sb"><a id="chapter2"></a><a id="chapter2_verse1"></a><span class="w_ch"><b>2 </b></span>Accordingly, put away all badness and all deceitfulness and hypocrisy and envies and all sorts of backbiting, <a id="chapter2_verse2"></a><b><sup>2 </sup></b>and, as newborn infants, form a longing for the unadulterated milk belonging to the word, that through it <span class="smcap">YOU </span>may grow to salvation, <a id="chapter2_verse3"></a><b><sup>3 </sup></b>provided <span class="smcap">YOU </span>have tasted that the Lord is kind.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter2_verse4"></a><b><sup>4 </sup></b>Coming to him as to a living stone, rejected, it is true, by men, but chosen, precious, with God, <a id="chapter2_verse5"></a><b><sup>5 </sup></b><span class="smcap">YOU </span>yourselves also as living stones are being built up a spiritual house for the purpose of a holy priesthood, to offer up spiritual sacrifices acceptable to God through Jesus Christ. <a id="chapter2_verse6"></a><b><sup>6 </sup></b>For it is contained in Scripture: “Look! I am laying in Zion a stone, chosen, a foundation cornerstone, precious; and no one exercising faith in it will by any means come to disappointment.”</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter2_verse7"></a><b><sup>7 </sup></b>It is to <span class="smcap">YOU</span>, therefore, that he is precious, because <span class="smcap">YOU </span>are believers; but to those not believing, “the identical stone that the builders rejected has become the head of the corner,” <a id="chapter2_verse8"></a><b><sup>8 </sup></b>and “a stone of stumbling and a rock-mass of offense.” These are stumbling because they are disobedient to the word. To this very end they were also appointed. <a id="chapter2_verse9"></a><b><sup>9 </sup></b>But <span class="smcap">YOU </span>are “a chosen race, a royal priesthood, a holy nation, a people for special possession, that <span class="smcap">YOU </span>should declare abroad the excellencies” of the one that called <span class="smcap">YOU </span>out of darkness into his wonderful light. <a id="chapter2_verse10"></a><b><sup>10 </sup></b>For <span class="smcap">YOU </span>were once not a people, but are now God’s people; <span class="smcap">YOU </span>were those who had not been shown mercy, but are now those who have been shown mercy.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter2_verse11"></a><b><sup>11 </sup></b>Beloved, I exhort <span class="smcap">YOU </span>as aliens and temporary residents to keep abstaining from fleshly desires, which are the very ones that carry on a conflict against the soul. <a id="chapter2_verse12"></a><b><sup>12 </sup></b>Maintain <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>conduct fine among the nations, that, in the thing in which they are speaking against <span class="smcap">YOU </span>as evildoers, they may as a result of <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>fine works of which they are eyewitnesses glorify God in the day for his inspection.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter2_verse13"></a><b><sup>13 </sup></b>For the Lord’s sake subject yourselves to every human creation: whether to a king as being superior <a id="chapter2_verse14"></a><b><sup>14 </sup></b>or to governors as being sent by him to inflict punishment on evildoers but to praise doers of good. <a id="chapter2_verse15"></a><b><sup>15 </sup></b>For so the will of God is, that by doing good <span class="smcap">YOU </span>may muzzle the ignorant talk of the unreasonable <a id="page1512"></a>men. <a id="chapter2_verse16"></a><b><sup>16 </sup></b>Be as free people, and yet holding <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>freedom, not as a blind for badness, but as slaves of God. <a id="chapter2_verse17"></a><b><sup>17 </sup></b>Honor men of all sorts, have love for the whole association of brothers, be in fear of God, have honor for the king.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter2_verse18"></a><b><sup>18 </sup></b>Let house servants be in subjection to their owners with all due fear, not only to the good and reasonable, but also to those hard to please. <a id="chapter2_verse19"></a><b><sup>19 </sup></b>For if someone, because of conscience toward God, bears up under grievous things and suffers unjustly, this is an agreeable thing. <a id="chapter2_verse20"></a><b><sup>20 </sup></b>For what merit is there in it if, when <span class="smcap">YOU </span>are sinning and being slapped, <span class="smcap">YOU </span>endure it? But if, when <span class="smcap">YOU </span>are doing good and <span class="smcap">YOU </span>suffer, <span class="smcap">YOU </span>endure it, this is a thing agreeable with God.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter2_verse21"></a><b><sup>21 </sup></b>In fact, to this course <span class="smcap">YOU </span>were called, because even Christ suffered for <span class="smcap">YOU</span>, leaving <span class="smcap">YOU </span>a model for <span class="smcap">YOU </span>to follow his steps closely. <a id="chapter2_verse22"></a><b><sup>22 </sup></b>He committed no sin, nor was deception found in his mouth. <a id="chapter2_verse23"></a><b><sup>23 </sup></b>When he was being reviled, he did not go reviling in return. When he was suffering, he did not go threatening, but kept on committing himself to the one who judges righteously. <a id="chapter2_verse24"></a><b><sup>24 </sup></b>He himself bore our sins in his own body upon the stake, in order that we might be done with sins and live to righteousness. And “by his stripes <span class="smcap">YOU </span>were healed.” <a id="chapter2_verse25"></a><b><sup>25 </sup></b>For <span class="smcap">YOU </span>were like sheep, going astray; but now <span class="smcap">YOU </span>have returned to the shepherd and overseer of <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>souls.</p>
</body>
</html>
