<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="application/xhtml+xml; charset=utf-8" />
<title>Revelation</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/bi12.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
<p class="st"><a id="page1526"></a><b>A Revelation to John</b></p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter1"></a><a id="chapter1_verse1"></a><span class="w_ch"><b>1 </b></span>A revelation by Jesus Christ, which God gave him, to show his slaves the things that must shortly take place. And he sent forth his angel and presented it in signs through him to his slave John, <a id="chapter1_verse2"></a><b><sup>2 </sup></b>who bore witness to the word God gave and to the witness Jesus Christ gave, even to all the things he saw. <a id="chapter1_verse3"></a><b><sup>3 </sup></b>Happy is he who reads aloud and those who hear the words of this prophecy, and who observe the things written in it; for the appointed time is near.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter1_verse4"></a><b><sup>4 </sup></b>John to the seven congregations that are in the district of Asia:</p>
<p class="sb">May <span class="smcap">YOU </span>have undeserved kindness and peace from “The One who is and who was and who is coming,” and from the seven spirits that are before his throne, <a id="chapter1_verse5"></a><b><sup>5 </sup></b>and from Jesus Christ, “the Faithful Witness,” “The firstborn from the dead,” and “The Ruler of the kings of the earth.”</p>
<p class="sb">To him that loves us and that loosed us from our sins by means of his own blood— <a id="chapter1_verse6"></a><b><sup>6 </sup></b>and he made us to be a kingdom, priests to his God and Father—yes, to him be the glory and the might forever. Amen.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter1_verse7"></a><b><sup>7 </sup></b>Look! He is coming with the clouds, and every eye will see him, and those who pierced him; and all the tribes of the earth will beat themselves in grief because of him. Yes, Amen.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter1_verse8"></a><b><sup>8 </sup></b>“I am the Al′pha and the O·me′ga,” says Jehovah God, “the One who is and who was and who is coming, the Almighty.”</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter1_verse9"></a><b><sup>9 </sup></b>I John, <span class="smcap">YOUR </span>brother and a sharer with <span class="smcap">YOU </span>in the tribulation <a id="page1527"></a>and kingdom and endurance in company with Jesus, came to be in the isle that is called Pat′mos for speaking about God and bearing witness to Jesus. <a id="chapter1_verse10"></a><b><sup>10 </sup></b>By inspiration I came to be in the Lord’s day, and I heard behind me a strong voice like that of a trumpet, <a id="chapter1_verse11"></a><b><sup>11 </sup></b>saying: “What you see write in a scroll and send it to the seven congregations, in Eph′e·sus and in Smyr′na and in Per′ga·mum and in Thy·a·ti′ra and in Sar′dis and in Philadelphia and in La·o·di·ce′a.”</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter1_verse12"></a><b><sup>12 </sup></b>And I turned to see the voice that was speaking with me, and, having turned, I saw seven golden lampstands, <a id="chapter1_verse13"></a><b><sup>13 </sup></b>and in the midst of the lampstands someone like a son of man, clothed with a garment that reached down to the feet, and girded at the breasts with a golden girdle. <a id="chapter1_verse14"></a><b><sup>14 </sup></b>Moreover, his head and his hair were white as white wool, as snow, and his eyes as a fiery flame; <a id="chapter1_verse15"></a><b><sup>15 </sup></b>and his feet were like fine copper when glowing in a furnace; and his voice was as the sound of many waters. <a id="chapter1_verse16"></a><b><sup>16 </sup></b>And he had in his right hand seven stars, and out of his mouth a sharp, long two-edged sword was protruding, and his countenance was as the sun when it shines in its power. <a id="chapter1_verse17"></a><b><sup>17 </sup></b>And when I saw him, I fell as dead at his feet.</p>
<p class="sb">And he laid his right hand upon me and said: “Do not be fearful. I am the First and the Last, <a id="chapter1_verse18"></a><b><sup>18 </sup></b>and the living one; and I became dead, but, look! I am living forever and ever, and I have the keys of death and of Ha′des. <a id="chapter1_verse19"></a><b><sup>19 </sup></b>Therefore write down the things you saw, and the things that are and the things that will take place after these. <a id="chapter1_verse20"></a><b><sup>20 </sup></b>As for the sacred secret of the seven stars that you saw upon my right hand, and of the seven golden lampstands: The seven stars mean the angels of the seven congregations, and the seven lampstands mean seven congregations.</p>
</body>
</html>
