<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="application/xhtml+xml; charset=utf-8" />
<title>Revelation 11</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/bi12.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
<p class="w_biblebookname">Revelation</p><p class="sb"><a id="chapter11"></a><a id="chapter11_verse1"></a><span class="w_ch"><b>11 </b></span>And a reed like a rod was given me as he said: “Get up and measure the temple sanctuary of God and the altar and those worshiping in it. <a id="chapter11_verse2"></a><b><sup>2 </sup></b>But as for the courtyard that is outside the temple sanctuary, cast it clear out and do not measure it, because it has been given to the nations, and they will trample the holy city underfoot for forty-two months. <a id="chapter11_verse3"></a><b><sup>3 </sup></b>And I will cause my two witnesses to prophesy a thousand two hundred and sixty days dressed in sackcloth.” <a id="chapter11_verse4"></a><b><sup>4 </sup></b>These are symbolized by the two olive trees and the two lampstands and are standing before the Lord of the earth.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter11_verse5"></a><b><sup>5 </sup></b>And if anyone wants to harm them, fire issues forth from their mouths and devours their enemies; and if anyone should want to harm them, in this manner he must be killed. <a id="chapter11_verse6"></a><b><sup>6 </sup></b>These have the authority to shut up heaven that no rain should fall during the days of their prophesying, and they have authority over the waters to turn them into blood and to strike the earth with every sort of plague as often as they wish.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter11_verse7"></a><b><sup>7 </sup></b>And when they have finished their witnessing, the wild beast that ascends out of the abyss will make war with them and conquer them and kill them. <a id="chapter11_verse8"></a><b><sup>8 </sup></b>And their corpses will <a id="page1536"></a>be on the broad way of the great city which is in a spiritual sense called Sod′om and Egypt, where their Lord was also impaled. <a id="chapter11_verse9"></a><b><sup>9 </sup></b>And those of the peoples and tribes and tongues and nations will look at their corpses for three and a half days, and they do not let their corpses be laid in a tomb. <a id="chapter11_verse10"></a><b><sup>10 </sup></b>And those dwelling on the earth rejoice over them and enjoy themselves, and they will send gifts to one another, because these two prophets tormented those dwelling on the earth.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter11_verse11"></a><b><sup>11 </sup></b>And after the three and a half days spirit of life from God entered into them, and they stood upon their feet, and great fear fell upon those beholding them. <a id="chapter11_verse12"></a><b><sup>12 </sup></b>And they heard a loud voice out of heaven say to them: “Come on up here.” And they went up into heaven in the cloud, and their enemies beheld them. <a id="chapter11_verse13"></a><b><sup>13 </sup></b>And in that hour a great earthquake occurred, and a tenth of the city fell; and seven thousand persons were killed by the earthquake, and the rest became frightened and gave glory to the God of heaven.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter11_verse14"></a><b><sup>14 </sup></b>The second woe is past. Look! The third woe is coming quickly.</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter11_verse15"></a><b><sup>15 </sup></b>And the seventh angel blew his trumpet. And loud voices occurred in heaven, saying: “The kingdom of the world did become the kingdom of our Lord and of his Christ, and he will rule as king forever and ever.”</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter11_verse16"></a><b><sup>16 </sup></b>And the twenty-four elders who were seated before God upon their thrones fell upon their faces and worshiped God, <a id="chapter11_verse17"></a><b><sup>17 </sup></b>saying: “We thank you, Jehovah God, the Almighty, the One who is and who was, because you have taken your great power and begun ruling as king. <a id="chapter11_verse18"></a><b><sup>18 </sup></b>But the nations became wrathful, and your own wrath came, and the appointed time for the dead to be judged, and to give their reward to your slaves the prophets and to the holy ones and to those fearing your name, the small and the great, and to bring to ruin those ruining the earth.”</p>
<p class="sb"><a id="chapter11_verse19"></a><b><sup>19 </sup></b>And the temple sanctuary of God that is in heaven was opened, and the ark of his covenant was seen in his temple sanctuary. And there occurred lightnings and voices and thunders and an earthquake and a great hail.</p>
</body>
</html>
